   5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *  Monitor patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) for worsening of signs and symptoms of BPH. (  5.1  ) 
 *  Avoid unintentional exposure of women or children to AndroGel 1%. Secondary exposure to testosterone can produce signs of virilization. AndroGel 1% should be discontinued until the cause of virilization is identified. (  5.2  ) 
 *  Venous thromboembolism (VTE), including deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) have been reported in patients using testosterone products. Evaluate patients with signs or symptoms consistent with DVT or PE. (  5.4  ) 
 *  Some postmarketing studies have shown an increased risk of myocardial infarction and stroke associated with use of testosterone replacement therapy. (  5.5  ) 
 *  Exogenous administration of androgens may lead to azoospermia. (  5.8  ) 
 *  Edema, with or without congestive heart failure (CHF), may be a complication in patients with preexisting cardiac, renal, or hepatic disease. (  5.10  ,  6.2  ) 
 *  Sleep apnea may occur in those with risk factors. (  5.12  ) 
 *  Monitor serum testosterone, prostate specific antigen (PSA), hemoglobin, hematocrit, liver function tests, and lipid concentrations periodically. (  5.1  ,  5.3  ,  5.9  ,  5.13  ) 
 *  AndroGel 1% is flammable until dry. (  5.16  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Worsening of Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) and Potential Risk of Prostate Cancer

    *  Patients with BPH treated with androgens are at an increased risk for worsening of signs and symptoms of BPH. Monitor patients with BPH for worsening signs and symptoms. 
 *  Patients treated with androgens may be at increased risk for prostate cancer. Evaluate patients for prostate cancer prior to initiating and during treatment with androgens [see Contraindications (  4  ), Adverse Reactions (  6.1  ) and Nonclinical Toxicology (  13.1  )] . 
       5.2 Potential for Secondary Exposure to Testosterone
 

  Cases of secondary exposure resulting in virilization of children have been reported in postmarketing surveillance. Signs and symptoms have included enlargement of the penis or clitoris, development of pubic hair, increased erections and libido, aggressive behavior, and advanced bone age. In most cases, these signs and symptoms regressed with removal of the exposure to testosterone gel. In a few cases, however, enlarged genitalia did not fully return to age-appropriate normal size, and bone age remained modestly greater than chronological age. The risk of transfer was increased in some of these cases by not adhering to precautions for the appropriate use of the topical testosterone product. Children and women should avoid contact with unwashed or unclothed application sites in men using AndroGel 1% [see Dosage and Administration (  2.2  ), Use in Specific Populations (  8.1  )  and Clinical Pharmacology (  12.3  )]  .

 Inappropriate changes in genital size or development of pubic hair or libido in children, or changes in body hair distribution, significant increase in acne, or other signs of virilization in adult women should be brought to the attention of a physician and the possibility of secondary exposure to testosterone gel should also be brought to the attention of a physician. Testosterone gel should be promptly discontinued until the cause of virilization has been identified.

    5.3 Polycythemia

  Increases in hematocrit, reflective of increases in red blood cell mass, may require lowering or discontinuation of testosterone. Check hematocrit prior to initiating treatment. It would also be appropriate to re-evaluate the hematocrit 3 to 6 months after starting treatment, and then annually. If hematocrit becomes elevated, stop therapy until hematocrit decreases to an acceptable concentration. An increase in red blood cell mass may increase the risk of thromboembolic events.

    5.4 Venous Thromboembolism

  There have been postmarketing reports of venous thromboembolic events, including deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), in patients using testosterone products such as AndroGel 1%. Evaluate patients who report symptoms of pain, edema, warmth and erythema in the lower extremity for DVT and those who present with acute shortness of breath for PE. If a venous thromboembolic event is suspected, discontinue treatment with AndroGel 1% and initiate appropriate workup and management [see Adverse Reactions (  6.2  )]  .

    5.5 Cardiovascular Risk

  Long term clinical safety trials have not been conducted to assess the cardiovascular outcomes of testosterone replacement therapy in men. To date, epidemiologic studies and randomized controlled trials have been inconclusive for determining the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE), such as non-fatal myocardial infarction, non-fatal stroke, and cardiovascular death, with the use of testosterone compared to non-use. Some studies, but not all, have reported an increased risk of MACE in association with use of testosterone replacement therapy in men.

 Patients should be informed of this possible risk when deciding whether to use or to continue to use AndroGel 1%.

    5.6 Abuse of Testosterone and Monitoring of Serum Testosterone Concentrations

   Testosterone has been subject to abuse, typically at doses higher than recommended for the approved indication and in combination with other anabolic androgenic steroids. Anabolic androgenic steroid abuse can lead to serious cardiovascular and psychiatric adverse reactions [see Drug Abuse and Dependence (  9  )]  .  

  If testosterone abuse is suspected, check serum testosterone concentrations to ensure they are within therapeutic range. However, testosterone levels may be in the normal or subnormal range in men abusing synthetic testosterone derivatives. Counsel patients concerning the serious adverse reactions associated with abuse of testosterone and anabolic androgenic steroids. Conversely, consider the possibility of testosterone and anabolic androgenic steroid abuse in suspected patients who present with serious cardiovascular or psychiatric adverse events.  

    5.7 Use in Women

  Due to lack of controlled evaluations in women and potential virilizing effects, AndroGel 1% is not indicated for use in women [see Contraindications (  4  )  and Use in Specific Populations (  8.1  ,  8.3  )].  

    5.8 Potential for Adverse Effects on Spermatogenesis

  With large doses of exogenous androgens, including AndroGel 1%, spermatogenesis may be suppressed through feedback inhibition of pituitary follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) which could possibly lead to adverse effects on semen parameters including sperm count.

    5.9 Hepatic Adverse Effects

  Prolonged use of high doses of orally active 17-alpha-alkyl androgens (e.g., methyltestosterone) has been associated with serious hepatic adverse effects (peliosis hepatis, hepatic neoplasms, cholestatic hepatitis, and jaundice). Peliosis hepatis can be a life-threatening or fatal complication. Long-term therapy with intramuscular testosterone enanthate has produced multiple hepatic adenomas. AndroGel 1% is not known to cause these adverse effects.

    5.10 Edema

  Androgens, including AndroGel 1%, may promote retention of sodium and water. Edema, with or without congestive heart failure, may be a serious complication in patients with preexisting cardiac, renal, or hepatic disease [see Adverse Reactions (  6.2  )].  

    5.11 Gynecomastia

  Gynecomastia may develop and persist in patients being treated with androgens, including AndroGel 1%, for hypogonadism.

    5.12 Sleep Apnea

  The treatment of hypogonadal men with testosterone may potentiate sleep apnea in some patients, especially those with risk factors such as obesity or chronic lung diseases [see Adverse Reactions (  6.2  )]  .

    5.13 Lipids

  Changes in serum lipid profile may require dose adjustment or discontinuation of testosterone therapy.

    5.14 Hypercalcemia

  Androgens, including AndroGel 1%, should be used with caution in cancer patients at risk of hypercalcemia (and associated hypercalciuria). Regular monitoring of serum calcium concentrations is recommended in these patients.

    5.15 Decreased Thyroxine-binding Globulin

  Androgens, including AndroGel 1%, may decrease concentrations of thyroxin-binding globulins, resulting in decreased total T4 serum concentrations and increased resin uptake of T3 and T4. Free thyroid hormone concentrations remain unchanged, however, and there is no clinical evidence of thyroid dysfunction.

    5.16 Flammability

   Alcohol based products, including AndroGel 1%, are flammable; therefore, patients should be advised to avoid fire, flame or smoking until the AndroGel 1% has dried.  

