

    BOXED WARNING: WARNING:  HEPATOTOXICITY and RISK OF TERATOGENICITY

  WARNING:  HEPATOTOXICITY and RISK OF TERATOGENICITY

  EXCERPT:   WARNING:  HEPATOTOXICITY and RISK OF TERATOGENICITY



   See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning  



   Hepatotoxicity  



   Severe liver injury including fatal liver failure has been reported in patients treated with leflunomide, which is indicated for rheumatoid arthritis. A similar risk would be expected for teriflunomide because recommended doses of teriflunomide and leflunomide result in a similar range of plasma concentrations of teriflunomide. Obtain transaminase and bilirubin levels within 6 months before initiation of AUBAGIO and monitor ALT levels at least monthly for six months (  5.1  ). If drug induced liver injury is suspected, discontinue AUBAGIO and start accelerated elimination procedure (  5.3  ).   



   Risk of Teratogenicity  



   Based on animal data, AUBAGIO may cause major birth defects if used during pregnancy. AUBAGIO is contraindicated in pregnant women or women of childbearing potential who are not using reliable contraception. Pregnancy must be avoided during AUBAGIO treatment. (  4.2  ,   5.2  )  



 



  Hepatotoxicity

    Severe liver injury including fatal liver failure has been reported in patients treated with leflunomide, which is indicated for rheumatoid arthritis. A similar risk would be expected for teriflunomide because recommended doses of teriflunomide and leflunomide result in a similar range of plasma concentrations of teriflunomide. Concomitant use of AUBAGIO with other potentially hepatotoxic drugs may increase the risk of severe liver injury. Obtain transaminase and bilirubin levels within 6 months before initiation of AUBAGIO therapy. Monitor ALT levels at least monthly for six months after starting AUBAGIO   [see   Warnings and Precautions (5.1)  ].   If drug induced liver injury is suspected, discontinue AUBAGIO and start an accelerated elimination procedure with cholestyramine or charcoal   [see   Warnings and Precautions (5.3)  ]  . AUBAGIO is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment   [see   Contraindications (4.1)  ]  . Patients with pre-existing liver disease may be at increased risk of developing elevated serum transaminases when taking AUBAGIO.   



   Risk of Teratogenicity

    Based on animal data, AUBAGIO may cause major birth defects if used during pregnancy. Pregnancy must be excluded before starting AUBAGIO. AUBAGIO is contraindicated in pregnant women or women of childbearing potential who are not using reliable contraception. Pregnancy must be avoided during AUBAGIO treatment or prior to the completion of an accelerated elimination procedure after AUBAGIO treatment   [see   Contraindications (4.2)  ,   Warnings and Precautions (5.2)  , and   Use in Specific Populations (8.1)  ]  .   
