   5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *  Perforation or Fistula: Discontinue for tracheoesophageal fistula, grade 4 fistula, or necrotizing fasciitis. (  5.1  ) 
 *  Arterial Thromboembolic Events (ATE): Discontinue for severe ATE. (  5.4  ) 
 *  Venous Thromboembolic Events (VTE): Discontinue for Grade 4 VTE. (  5.5  ) 
 *  Hypertension: Monitor blood pressure and treat hypertension. Withhold if not medically controlled; resume once controlled. Discontinue for hypertensive crisis or hypertensive encephalopathy. (  5.6  ) 
 *  Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome (PRES): Discontinue. (  5.7  ) 
 *  Renal Injury and Proteinuria: Monitor urine protein. Discontinue for nephrotic syndrome. Withhold until less than 2 grams of protein in urine. (  5.8  ) 
 *  Infusion Reactions: Decrease rate for infusion reactions. Discontinue for severe infusion reactions and administer medical therapy. (  5.9  ) 
 *  Embryo-fetal Toxicity: Advise females of potential risk to fetus and need for use of effective contraception. (  5.10  ,  8.1  ,  8.3  ) 
 *  Ovarian Failure: Advise females of the potential risk. (  5.11  ,  8.3  ) 
 *  Congestive Heart Failure (CHF): Discontinue if CHF (  5.12  ). 
    
 

   5.1 Gastrointestinal Perforations and Fistulae

  Serious and sometimes fatal gastrointestinal perforation occur at a higher incidence in patients receiving Avastin compared to patients receiving chemotherapy. The incidence ranged from 0.3% to 3% across clinical studies, with the highest incidence in patients with a history of prior pelvic radiation. Perforation can be complicated by intra-abdominal abscess, fistula formation, and the need for diverting ostomies. The majority of perforations occurred within 50 days of the first dose.

 Serious fistulae (including, tracheoesophageal, bronchopleural, biliary, vaginal, renal and bladder sites) occur at a higher incidence in patients receiving Avastin compared to patients receiving chemotherapy. The incidence ranged from < 1% to 1.8% across clinical studies, with the highest incidence in patients with cervical cancer. The majority of fistulae occurred within 6 months of the first dose. Patients who develop a gastrointestinal vaginal fistula may also have a bowel obstruction and require surgical intervention, as well as a diverting ostomy.

 Avoid Avastin in patients with ovarian cancer who have evidence of recto-sigmoid involvement by pelvic examination or bowel involvement on CT scan or clinical symptoms of bowel obstruction. Discontinue in patients who develop gastrointestinal perforation, tracheoesophageal fistula or any Grade 4 fistula. Discontinue in patients with fistula formation involving any internal organ [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ].  

    5.2 Surgery and Wound Healing Complications

  In a controlled clinical study in which Avastin was not administered within 28 days of major surgical procedures, the incidence of wound healing complications, including serious and fatal complications, was 15% in patients with mCRC who underwent surgery while receiving Avastin and 4% in patients who did not receive Avastin. In a controlled clinical study in patients with relapsed or recurrent GBM, the incidence of wound healing events was 5% in patients who received Avastin and 0.7% in patients who did not receive Avastin [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ].  

 Discontinue Avastin in patients with wound healing complications requiring medical intervention. Withhold for at least 28 days prior to elective surgery. Do not administer for at least 28 days following surgery and until the wound is fully healed.

 Necrotizing fasciitis including fatal cases, has been reported in patients receiving Avastin, usually secondary to wound healing complications, gastrointestinal perforation or fistula formation. Discontinue in patients who develop necrotizing fasciitis [see  Adverse Reactions (6.3)  ].  

    5.3 Hemorrhage

  Avastin can result in two distinct patterns of bleeding: minor hemorrhage, most commonly Grade 1 epistaxis; and serious, and in some cases fatal, hemorrhage. Severe or fatal hemorrhage, including hemoptysis, gastrointestinal bleeding, hematemesis, CNS hemorrhage, epistaxis, and vaginal bleeding, occurred up to 5-fold more frequently in patients receiving Avastin compared to patients receiving chemotherapy alone. Across clinical studies, the incidence of Grades 3-5 hemorrhagic events ranged from 0.4% to 7% in patients receiving Avastin [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ].  

 Serious or fatal pulmonary hemorrhage occurred in 31% of patients with squamous NSCLC and 4% of patients with non-squamous NSCLC receiving Avastin with chemotherapy compared to none of the patients receiving chemotherapy alone.

 Do not administer Avastin to patients with recent history of hemoptysis of 1/2 teaspoon or more of red blood. Discontinue in patients who develop a Grade 3-4 hemorrhage.

    5.4 Arterial Thromboembolic Events

  Serious, sometimes fatal, arterial thromboembolic events (ATE) including cerebral infarction, transient ischemic attacks, myocardial infarction, and angina, occurred at a higher incidence in patients receiving Avastin compared to patients receiving chemotherapy. Across clinical studies, the incidence of Grades 3-5 ATE was 5% in patients receiving Avastin with chemotherapy compared to <= 2% in patients receiving chemotherapy alone; the highest incidence occurred in patients with GBM. The risk of developing ATE was increased in patients with a history of arterial thromboembolism, diabetes, or greater than 65 years old [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.5)  ].  

 Discontinue in patients who develop a severe ATE. The safety of reinitiating Avastin after an ATE is resolved is not known.

    5.5 Venous Thromboembolic Events

  An increased risk of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) was observed across clinical studies. In Study GOG-0240, Grade 3-4 VTE was reported in 11% of patients receiving Avastin with chemotherapy compared with 5% of patients receiving chemotherapy alone. In EORTC 26101, the incidence of Grade 3-4 VTE was 5% in patients receiving Avastin with chemotherapy compared to 2% in patients receiving chemotherapy alone.

 Discontinue Avastin in patients with a Grade 4 VTE, including pulmonary embolism [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ].  

    5.6 Hypertension

  The incidence of severe hypertension is increased in patients receiving Avastin as compared to patients receiving chemotherapy alone. Across clinical studies, the incidence of Grade 3-4 hypertension ranged from 5% to 18%.

 Monitor blood pressure every two to three weeks during treatment with Avastin. Treat with appropriate anti-hypertensive therapy and monitor blood pressure regularly. Continue to monitor blood pressure at regular intervals in patients with Avastin-induced or -exacerbated hypertension after discontinuing Avastin. Withhold Avastin in patients with severe hypertension that is not controlled with medical management; resume once controlled with medical management. Discontinue in patients who develop hypertensive crisis or hypertensive encephalopathy.

    5.7 Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome (PRES)

  PRES was reported in < 0.5% of patients across clinical studies. The onset of symptoms occurred from 16 hours to 1 year after the first dose. PRES is a neurological disorder which can present with headache, seizure, lethargy, confusion, blindness and other visual and neurologic disturbances. Mild to severe hypertension may be present. Magnetic resonance imaging is necessary to confirm the diagnosis of PRES.

 Discontinue Avastin in patients who develop PRES. Symptoms usually resolve or improve within days after discontinuing Avastin, although some patients have experienced ongoing neurologic sequelae. The safety of reinitiating Avastin in patients who developed PRES is not known.

    5.8 Renal Injury and Proteinuria

  The incidence and severity of proteinuria is higher in patients receiving Avastin as compared to patients receiving chemotherapy. Grade 3 (defined as urine dipstick 4+ or > 3.5 grams of protein per 24 hours) to Grade 4 (defined as nephrotic syndrome) ranged from 0.7% to 7% in clinical studies. The overall incidence of proteinuria (all grades) was only adequately assessed in Study BO17705, in which the incidence was 20%. Median onset of proteinuria was 5.6 months (15 days to 37 months) after initiating Avastin. Median time to resolution was 6.1 months (95% CI: 2.8, 11.3). Proteinuria did not resolve in 40% of patients after median follow-up of 11.2 months and required discontinuation of Avastin in 30% of the patients who developed proteinuria.

 In an exploratory, pooled analysis of patients from seven randomized clinical studies, 5% of patients receiving Avastin with chemotherapy experienced Grades 2-4 (defined as urine dipstick 2+ or greater or > 1 gram of protein per 24 hours or nephrotic syndrome) proteinuria. Grades 2-4 proteinuria resolved in 74% of patients. Avastin was reinitiated in 42% of patients. Of the 113 patients who reinitiated Avastin, 48% experienced a second episode of Grade 2-4 proteinuria.

 Nephrotic syndrome occurred in < 1% of patients receiving Avastin across clinical studies, in some instances with fatal outcome. In a published case series, kidney biopsy of 6 patients with proteinuria showed findings consistent with thrombotic microangiopathy. Results of a retrospective analysis of 5805 patients who received Avastin with chemotherapy and 3713 patients who received chemotherapy alone, showed higher rates of elevated serum creatinine levels (between 1.5 to 1.9 times baseline levels) in patients who received Avastin. Serum creatinine levels did not return to baseline in approximately one-third of patients who received Avastin.

 Monitor proteinuria by dipstick urine analysis for the development or worsening of proteinuria with serial urinalyses during Avastin therapy. Patients with a 2+ or greater urine dipstick reading should undergo further assessment with a 24-hour urine collection. Withhold for proteinuria greater than or equal to 2 grams per 24 hours and resume when less than 2 grams per 24 hours. Discontinue in patients who develop nephrotic syndrome.

 Data from a postmarketing safety study showed poor correlation between UPCR (Urine Protein/Creatinine Ratio) and 24-hour urine protein [Pearson Correlation 0.39 (95% CI: 0.17, 0.57)] .  

    5.9 Infusion Reactions

  Infusion reactions reported across clinical studies and post-marketing experience include hypertension, hypertensive crises associated with neurologic signs and symptoms, wheezing, oxygen desaturation, Grade 3 hypersensitivity, chest pain, headaches, rigors, and diaphoresis. In clinical studies, infusion reactions with the first dose occurred in < 3% of patients and severe reactions occurred in 0.2% of patients.

 Decrease the rate of infusion for mild, clinically insignificant infusion reactions. Interrupt the infusion in patients with clinically significant infusion reactions and consider resuming at a slower rate following resolution. Discontinue in patients who develop a severe infusion reaction and administer appropriate medical therapy (e.g., epinephrine, corticosteroids, intravenous antihistamines, bronchodilators and/or oxygen).

    5.10 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity

  Avastin may cause fetal harm based on its mechanism of action and findings from animal studies. Congenital malformations were observed with the administration of bevacizumab to pregnant rabbits during organogenesis every 3 days at a dose as low as a clinical dose of 10 mg/kg. Furthermore, animal models link angiogenesis and VEGF and VEGFR 2 to critical aspects of female reproduction, embryo-fetal development, and postnatal development. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus. Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment with and for 6 months after the last dose of Avastin [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.1  ,  8.3)  ,  Clinical Pharmacology (12.1)  ].  

    5.11 Ovarian Failure

  The incidence of ovarian failure was 34% vs. 2% in premenopausal women receiving Avastin with chemotherapy as compared to those receiving chemotherapy alone for adjuvant treatment of a solid tumor. After discontinuing Avastin, recovery of ovarian function at all time points during the post-treatment period was demonstrated in 22% of women receiving Avastin. Recovery of ovarian function is defined as resumption of menses, a positive serum beta-HCG pregnancy test, or a FSH level < 30 mIU/mL during the post-treatment period. Long-term effects of Avastin on fertility are unknown. Inform females of reproductive potential of the risk of ovarian failure prior to initiating Avastin [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ,  Use in Specific Populations (8.3)  ].  

    5.12 Congestive Heart Failure (CHF)

   Avastin is not indicated for use with anthracycline-based chemotherapy. The incidence of Grade >= 3 left ventricular dysfunction was 1% in patients receiving Avastin compared to 0.6% of patients receiving chemotherapy alone. Among patients who received prior anthracycline treatment, the rate of CHF was 4% for patients receiving Avastin with chemotherapy as compared to 0.6% for patients receiving chemotherapy alone.  

  In previously untreated patients with a hematological malignancy, the incidence of CHF and decline in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) were increased in patients receiving Avastin with anthracycline-based chemotherapy compared to patients receiving placebo with the same chemotherapy regimen. The proportion of patients with a decline in LVEF from baseline of >= 20% or a decline from baseline of 10% to < 50%, was 10% in patients receiving Avastin with chemotherapy compared to 5% in patients receiving chemotherapy alone. Time to onset of left-ventricular dysfunction or CHF was 1 to 6 months after the first dose in at least 85% of the patients and was resolved in 62% of the patients who developed CHF in the Avastin arm compared to 82% in the placebo arm. Discontinue Avastin in patients who develop CHF.  

