    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Neoplasms: Preexisting malignancy should be inactive and its treatment complete prior to starting EGRIFTA  (r)  therapy. (  5.1  ) 
 *  Elevated IGF-1: Monitor regularly in all patients. Consider discontinuation in patients with persistent elevations. (  5.2  ) 
 *  Fluid retention: May include edema, arthralgia, and carpal tunnel syndrome. (  5.3  ) 
 *  Glucose intolerance: May develop with EGRIFTA  (r)  use. Evaluate glucose status prior to and during therapy with EGRIFTA  (r)  . (  5.4  ) 
 *  Hypersensitivity reactions (e.g., rash, urticaria): Advise patients to seek immediate medical attention if suspected. (  5.5  ) 
 *  Injection site reactions: Advise patients to rotate sites. (  5.6  ) 
 *  Acute critical illness: Consider discontinuation. (  5.7  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Neoplasms



  EGRIFTA  (r)  induces the release of endogenous growth hormone (GH), a known growth factor. Thus, patients with active malignancy should not be treated with EGRIFTA  (r)   [see Contraindications (  4.2  )]  .



 For patients with a history of non-malignant neoplasms, EGRIFTA  (r)  therapy should be initiated after careful evaluation of the potential benefit of treatment. For patients with a history of treated and stable malignancies, EGRIFTA  (r)  therapy should be initiated only after careful evaluation of the potential benefit of treatment relative to the risk of re-activation of the underlying malignancy.



 In addition, the decision to start treatment with EGRIFTA  (r)  should be considered carefully based on the increased background risk of malignancies in HIV-positive patients.



    5.2 Elevated IGF-1



  EGRIFTA  (r)  stimulates GH production and increases serum IGF-1. Given that IGF-1 is a growth factor and the effect of prolonged elevations in IGF-1 levels on the development or progression of malignancies is unknown, IGF-1 levels should be monitored closely during EGRIFTA  (r)  therapy. Careful consideration should be given to discontinuing EGRIFTA  (r)  in patients with persistent elevations of IGF-1 levels (e.g., >3 SDS), particularly if the efficacy response is not robust (e.g., based on visceral adipose tissue changes measured by waist circumference or CT scan).



 During the clinical trials, patients were monitored every three months. Among patients who received EGRIFTA  (r)  for 26 weeks, 47.4% had IGF-1 levels greater than 2 standard deviation scores (SDS), and 35.6% had SDS >3, with this effect seen as early as 13 weeks of treatment. Among those patients who remained on EGRIFTA  (r)  for a total of 52 weeks, at the end of treatment 33.7% had IGF-1 SDS >2 and 22.6% had IGF-1 SDS >3.



    5.3 Fluid Retention



  Fluid retention may occur during EGRIFTA  (r)  therapy and is thought to be related to the induction of GH secretion. It manifests as increased tissue turgor and musculoskeletal discomfort resulting in a variety of adverse reactions (e.g. edema, arthralgia, carpal tunnel syndrome) which are either transient or resolve with discontinuation of treatment.



    5.4 Glucose Intolerance



  EGRIFTA  (r)  treatment may result in glucose intolerance. During the Phase 3 clinical trials, the percentages of patients with elevated HbA1c(>= 6.5%) from baseline to Week 26 were 4.5% and 1.3% in the EGRIFTA  (r)  and placebo groups, respectively. An increased risk of developing diabetes with EGRIFTA  (r)  (HbA1clevel >= 6.5%) relative to placebo was observed [intent-to-treat hazard odds ratio of 3.3 (CI 1.4, 9.6)]. Therefore, glucose status should be carefully evaluated prior to initiating EGRIFTA  (r)  treatment. In addition, all patients treated with EGRIFTA  (r)  should be monitored periodically for changes in glucose metabolism to diagnose those who develop impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes. Diabetes is a known cardiovascular risk factor and patients who develop glucose intolerance have an elevated risk for developing diabetes. Caution should be exercised in treating HIV-positive patients with lipodystrophy with EGRIFTA  (r)  if they develop glucose intolerance or diabetes, and careful consideration should be given to discontinuing EGRIFTA  (r)  treatment in patients who do not show a clear efficacy response as judged by the degree of reduction in visceral adipose tissue by waist circumference or CT scan measurements.



 Since EGRIFTA  (r)  increases IGF-1, patients with diabetes who are receiving ongoing treatment with EGRIFTA  (r)  should be monitored at regular intervals for potential development or worsening of retinopathy.



    5.5 Hypersensitivity Reactions



  Hypersensitivity reactions may occur in patients treated with EGRIFTA  (r)  . Hypersensitivity reactions occurred in 3.6% of patients with HIV-associated lipodystrophy treated with EGRIFTA  (r)  in the Phase 3 clinical trials. These reactions included pruritus, erythema, flushing, urticaria, and other rash. In cases of suspected hypersensitivity reactions, patients should be advised to seek prompt medical attention and treatment with EGRIFTA  (r)  should be discontinued immediately.



    5.6 Injection Site Reactions



  EGRIFTA  (r)  treatment may cause injection site reactions, including injection site erythema, pruritus, pain, irritation, and bruising. The incidence of injection site reactions was 24.5% in EGRIFTA  (r)  -treated patients and 14.4% in placebo-treated patients during the first 26 weeks of treatment in the Phase 3 clinical trials. For patients who continued EGRIFTA  (r)  for an additional 26 weeks, the incidence of injection site reactions was 6.1%. In order to reduce the incidence of injection site reactions, it is recommended to rotate the site of injection to different areas of the abdomen.



    5.7 Acute Critical Illness



  Increased mortality in patients with acute critical illness due to complications following open heart surgery, abdominal surgery or multiple accidental trauma, or those with acute respiratory failure has been reported after treatment with pharmacologic amounts of growth hormone. EGRIFTA  (r)  has not been studied in patients with acute critical illness. Since EGRIFTA  (r)  stimulates growth hormone production, careful consideration should be given to discontinuing EGRIFTA  (r)  in critically ill patients.
