    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *   ella is not indicated for termination of an existing pregnancy. Exclude pregnancy before administering. (  5.1)   
 *  Ectopic pregnancy: Women who become pregnant or complain of lower abdominal pain after taking ella should be evaluated for ectopic pregnancy. (  5.2  ) 
 *  Effect on menstrual cycle: ella may alter the next expected menses. If menses is delayed beyond 1 week, pregnancy should be ruled out. (  5.5  ) 
 *   ella does not protect against STI/HIV. (  5.6  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Existing Pregnancy



   ella  is not indicated for termination of an existing pregnancy. Pregnancy should be excluded before prescribing ella.  If pregnancy cannot be excluded on the basis of history and/or physical examination, pregnancy testing should be performed. A follow-up physical or pelvic examination is recommended if there is any doubt concerning the general health or pregnancy status of any woman after taking ella  .



    5.2 Ectopic Pregnancy



  A history of ectopic pregnancy is not a contraindication to use of this emergency contraceptive method.  Healthcare providers, however, should consider the possibility of ectopic pregnancy in women who become pregnant or complain of lower abdominal pain after taking ella  .  A follow-up physical or pelvic examination is recommended if there is any doubt concerning the general health or pregnancy status of any woman after taking ella  .



    5.3 Repeated Use



   ella  is for occasional use as an emergency contraceptive. It should not replace a regular method of contraception. Repeated use of ella  within the same menstrual cycle is not recommended, as safety and efficacy of repeat use within the same cycle has not been evaluated.



    5.4 CYP3A4 Inducers



  A CYP3A4 inducer, rifampin, decreases the plasma concentration of ella significantly. Ella  should not be administered with CYP3A4 inducers [see Drug interactions (  7.1  ) and Pharmacokinetics (  12.3  )]  .



    5.5 Fertility Following Use



  A rapid return of fertility is likely following treatment with ella  for emergency contraception; therefore, routine contraception should be continued or initiated as soon as possible following use of ella  to ensure ongoing prevention of pregnancy. While there are no data about use of ella  with regular hormonal contraceptives, due to its high affinity binding to the progesterone receptor, use of ella  may reduce the contraceptive action of regular hormonal contraceptive methods. Therefore, after use of ella  , a reliable barrier method of contraception should be used with subsequent acts of intercourse that occur in that same menstrual cycle.



    5.6 Effect on Menstrual Cycle



  After ella  intake, menses sometimes occur earlier or later than expected by a few days. In clinical trials, cycle length was increased by a mean of 2.5 days but returned to normal in the subsequent cycle. Seven percent of subjects reported menses occurring more than 7 days earlier than expected, and 19% reported a delay of more than 7 days. If there is a delay in the onset of expected menses beyond 1 week, rule out pregnancy.



 Nine percent of women studied reported intermenstrual bleeding after use of ella.  



    5.7 Sexually Transmitted Infections/HIV



   ella  does not protect against HIV infection (AIDS) or other sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
