

    BOXED WARNING: WARNING:  SERIOUS INFECTIONS and MALIGNANCIES

    WARNING:  SERIOUS INFECTIONS and MALIGNANCIES  

    SERIOUS INFECTIONS  

   Patients treated with Enbrel are at increased risk for developing serious infections that may lead to hospitalization or death [see Warnings and Precautions (      5.1      ) and Adverse Reactions (      6      )].  Most patients who developed these infections were taking concomitant immunosuppressants such as methotrexate or corticosteroids.  

   Enbrel should be discontinued if a patient develops a serious infection or sepsis.  

   Reported infections include:  

 *  Active tuberculosis, including reactivation of latent tuberculosis. Patients with tuberculosis have frequently presented with disseminated or extrapulmonary disease. Patients should be tested for latent tuberculosis before Enbrel use and during therapy. Treatment for latent infection should be initiated prior to Enbrel use. 
 *  Invasive fungal infections, including histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, candidiasis, aspergillosis, blastomycosis, and pneumocystosis. Patients with histoplasmosis or other invasive fungal infections may present with disseminated, rather than localized, disease. Antigen and antibody testing for histoplasmosis may be negative in some patients with active infection. Empiric anti-fungal therapy should be considered in patients at risk for invasive fungal infections who develop severe systemic illness. 
 *  Bacterial, viral, and other infections due to opportunistic pathogens, including Legionella and Listeria. 
      The risks and benefits of treatment with Enbrel should be carefully considered prior to initiating therapy in patients with chronic or recurrent infection.  
 

   Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with Enbrel, including the possible development of tuberculosis in patients who tested negative for latent tuberculosis infection prior to initiating therapy.  

   MALIGNANCIES  

   Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, have been reported in children and adolescent patients treated with TNF blockers, including Enbrel.      

   EXCERPT:     WARNING    :     SERIOUS INFECTIONS     and         MALIGNANCIES  

   See     f    ull     p    rescribing     i    nformation for complete     b    oxed     w    arning.  

   SERIOUS INFECTIONS  

 *  Increased risk of serious infections leading to hospitalization or death, including tuberculosis (TB), bacterial sepsis, invasive fungal infections (such as histoplasmosis), and infections due to other opportunistic pathogens. (5.1) 
 *  Enbrel should be discontinued if a patient develops a serious infection or sepsis during treatment. (5.1) 
 *  Perform test for latent TB; if positive, start treatment for TB prior to starting Enbrel. (5.1) 
 *  Monitor all patients for active TB during treatment, even if initial latent TB test is negative. (5.1) 
           
 

   MALIGNANCIES  

 *  Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, have been reported in children and adolescent patients treated with TNF blockers, including Enbrel. (5.3) 
    

