    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Neoplastic growth. There is a risk for acceleration of neoplastic growth. Colonoscopy of the entire colon with removal of polyps should be done before initiating treatment with GATTEX and is recommended after 1 year. Subsequent colonoscopies should be done as needed, but no less frequently than every 5 years. In case of intestinal malignancy discontinue GATTEX. The clinical decision to continue GATTEX in patients with non-gastrointestinal malignancy should be made based on risk and benefit considerations. (  5.1  ) 
 *  Intestinal obstruction. In patients who develop obstruction, GATTEX should be temporarily discontinued pending further clinical evaluation and management. (  5.2  ) 
 *  Biliary and pancreatic disease. Patients should undergo laboratory assessment (bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, lipase, amylase) before starting GATTEX. Subsequent laboratory tests should be done every 6 months. If clinically meaningful changes are seen, further evaluation is recommended including imaging, and continued treatment with GATTEX should be reassessed. (  5.3  ) 
 *  Fluid overload. There is a potential for fluid overload while on GATTEX. If fluid overload occurs, especially in patients with cardiovascular disease, parenteral support should be appropriately adjusted, and GATTEX treatment reassessed. (  5.4  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Acceleration of Neoplastic Growth



  Based on the pharmacologic activity and findings in animals, GATTEX has the potential to cause hyperplastic changes including neoplasia. In patients at increased risk for malignancy, the clinical decision to use GATTEX should be considered only if the benefits outweigh the risks. In patients with active gastrointestinal malignancy (GI tract, hepatobiliary, pancreatic), GATTEX therapy should be discontinued. In patients with active non-gastrointestinal malignancy, the clinical decision to continue GATTEX should be made based on risk-benefit considerations. [see  Clinical Pharmacology (12.1)  and  Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)  ]  



    Colorectal Polyps  



 Colorectal polyps were identified during the clinical trials. Colonoscopy of the entire colon with removal of polyps should be done within 6 months prior to starting treatment with GATTEX. A follow-up colonoscopy (or alternate imaging) is recommended at the end of 1 year of GATTEX. Subsequent colonoscopies should be done every 5 years or more often as needed. If a polyp is found, adherence to current polyp follow-up guidelines is recommended. In case of diagnosis of colorectal cancer, GATTEX therapy should be discontinued . [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  



    Small Bowel Neoplasia  



 Based on benign tumor findings in the rat carcinogenicity study, patients should be monitored clinically for small bowel neoplasia. If a benign neoplasm is found, it should be removed. In case of small bowel cancer, GATTEX therapy should be discontinued. [see  Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)  ]  



    5.2 Intestinal Obstruction



  Intestinal obstruction has been reported in clinical trials. In patients who develop intestinal or stomal obstruction, GATTEX should be temporarily discontinued while the patient is clinically managed. GATTEX may be restarted when the obstructive presentation resolves, if clinically indicated. [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  



    5.3 Biliary and Pancreatic Disease



   Gallbladder and Biliary Tract Disease  



 Cholecystitis, cholangitis, and cholelithiasis, have been reported in clinical studies. For identification of the onset or worsening of gallbladder/biliary disease, patients should undergo laboratory assessment of bilirubin and alkaline phosphatase within 6 months prior to starting GATTEX, and at least every 6 months while on GATTEX; or more frequently if needed. If clinically meaningful changes are seen, further evaluation including imaging of the gallbladder and/or biliary tract is recommended; and the need for continued GATTEX treatment should be reassessed. [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  



    Pancreatic Disease  



 Pancreatitis has been reported in clinical studies. For identification of onset or worsening of pancreatic disease, patients should undergo laboratory assessment of lipase and amylase within 6 months prior to starting GATTEX, and at least every 6 months while on GATTEX; or more frequently if needed. If clinically meaningful changes are seen, further evaluation such as imaging of the pancreas is recommended; and the need for continued GATTEX treatment should be reassessed. [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  and  Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)  ]  



    5.4 Fluid Overload



  Fluid overload and congestive heart failure have been observed in clinical trials, which were felt to be related to enhanced fluid absorption associated with GATTEX. If fluid overload occurs, parenteral support should be adjusted and GATTEX treatment should be reassessed, especially in patients with underlying cardiovascular disease. If significant cardiac deterioration develops while on GATTEX, the need for continued GATTEX treatment should be reassessed. [ see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  



    5.5 Increased Absorption of Concomitant Oral Medication



  Altered mental status in association with GATTEX has been observed in patients on benzodiazepines in clinical trials. Patients on concomitant oral drugs (e.g., benzodiazepines, phenothiazines) requiring titration or with a narrow therapeutic index may require dose adjustment while on GATTEX. [ see  Adverse Reactions (6.2)     ]  
