   5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *   Lower limb amputation : See  boxed warning  (  5.1  ) 
 *   Hypotension : Before initiating INVOKANA, assess volume status and correct hypovolemia in patients with renal impairment, the elderly, in patients with low systolic blood pressure, or if on diuretics, ACEi, or ARB. Monitor for signs and symptoms during therapy (  5.2  ) 
 *   Ketoacidosis : Assess patients who present with signs and symptoms of metabolic acidosis for ketoacidosis, regardless of blood glucose level. If suspected, discontinue INVOKANA, evaluate and treat promptly. Before initiating INVOKANA, consider risk factors for ketoacidosis. Patients on INVOKANA may require monitoring and temporary discontinuation of therapy in clinical situations known to predispose to ketoacidosis (  5.3  ) 
 *   Acute kidney injury and impairment in renal function : Consider temporarily discontinuing in settings of reduced oral intake or fluid losses. If acute kidney injury occurs, discontinue and promptly treat. Monitor renal function during therapy (  5.4  ) 
 *   Hyperkalemia : Monitor potassium levels in patients with impaired renal function and in patients predisposed to hyperkalemia (  2.2  ,  5.5  ,  6.1  ,  8.6  ) 
 *   Urosepsis and pyelonephritis : Evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of urinary tract infections and treat promptly, if indicated (  5.6  ) 
 *   Hypoglycemia : Consider a lower dose of insulin or the insulin secretagogue to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with INVOKANA (  5.7  ) 
 *   Genital mycotic infections : Monitor and treat if indicated (  5.8  ) 
 *   Hypersensitivity reactions : Discontinue INVOKANA and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve (  5.9  ) 
 *   Bone fracture : Consider factors that contribute to fracture risk before initiating INVOKANA (  5.10  ) 
 *   Increased LDL-C : Monitor LDL-C and treat if appropriate (  5.11  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Lower Limb Amputation

   An approximately 2-fold increased risk of lower limb amputations associated with INVOKANA use was observed in CANVAS and CANVAS-R, two large, randomized, placebo-controlled trials evaluating patients with type 2 diabetes who had either established cardiovascular disease or were at risk for cardiovascular disease. In CANVAS, INVOKANA-treated patients and placebo-treated patients had 5.9 and 2.8 amputations per 1000 patients per year, respectively. In CANVAS-R, INVOKANA-treated patients and placebo-treated patients had 7.5 and 4.2 amputations per 1000 patients per year, respectively. The risk of lower limb amputations was observed at both the 100 mg and 300 mg once daily dosage regimens. The amputation data for CANVAS and CANVAS-R are shown in Tables 2 and 3, respectively [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ].    

  Amputations of the toe and midfoot (99 out of 140 patients with amputations receiving INVOKANA in the two trials) were the most frequent; however, amputations involving the leg, below and above the knee, were also observed (41 out of 140 patients with amputations receiving INVOKANA in the two trials). Some patients had multiple amputations, some involving both lower limbs.  

  Lower limb infections, gangrene, and diabetic foot ulcers were the most common precipitating medical events leading to the need for an amputation. The risk of amputation was highest in patients with a baseline history of prior amputation, peripheral vascular disease, and neuropathy.  

  Before initiating INVOKANA, consider factors in the patient history that may predispose to the need for amputations, such as a history of prior amputation, peripheral vascular disease, neuropathy and diabetic foot ulcers. Counsel patients about the importance of routine preventative foot care. Monitor patients receiving INVOKANA for signs and symptoms of infection (including osteomyelitis), new pain or tenderness, sores or ulcers involving the lower limbs, and discontinue INVOKANA if these complications occur.  

    5.2 Hypotension

  INVOKANA causes intravascular volume contraction. Symptomatic hypotension can occur after initiating INVOKANA [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  particularly in patients with impaired renal function (eGFR less than 60 mL/min/1.73 m  2  ), elderly patients, patients on either diuretics or medications that interfere with the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (e.g., angiotensin-converting-enzyme [ACE] inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]), or patients with low systolic blood pressure. Before initiating INVOKANA in patients with one or more of these characteristics, volume status should be assessed and corrected. Monitor for signs and symptoms after initiating therapy.

    5.3 Ketoacidosis

  Reports of ketoacidosis, a serious life-threatening condition requiring urgent hospitalization have been identified in postmarketing surveillance in patients with type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus receiving sodium glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors, including INVOKANA. Fatal cases of ketoacidosis have been reported in patients taking INVOKANA. INVOKANA is not indicated for the treatment of patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus [see  Indications and Usage (1)  ]  .

 Patients treated with INVOKANA who present with signs and symptoms consistent with severe metabolic acidosis should be assessed for ketoacidosis regardless of presenting blood glucose levels, as ketoacidosis associated with INVOKANA may be present even if blood glucose levels are less than 250 mg/dL. If ketoacidosis is suspected, INVOKANA should be discontinued, patient should be evaluated, and prompt treatment should be instituted. Treatment of ketoacidosis may require insulin, fluid and carbohydrate replacement.

 In many of the postmarketing reports, and particularly in patients with type 1 diabetes, the presence of ketoacidosis was not immediately recognized and institution of treatment was delayed because presenting blood glucose levels were below those typically expected for diabetic ketoacidosis (often less than 250 mg/dL). Signs and symptoms at presentation were consistent with dehydration and severe metabolic acidosis and included nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, generalized malaise, and shortness of breath. In some but not all cases, factors predisposing to ketoacidosis such as insulin dose reduction, acute febrile illness, reduced caloric intake due to illness or surgery, pancreatic disorders suggesting insulin deficiency (e.g., type 1 diabetes, history of pancreatitis or pancreatic surgery), and alcohol abuse were identified.

 Before initiating INVOKANA, consider factors in the patient history that may predispose to ketoacidosis including pancreatic insulin deficiency from any cause, caloric restriction, and alcohol abuse. In patients treated with INVOKANA consider monitoring for ketoacidosis and temporarily discontinuing INVOKANA in clinical situations known to predispose to ketoacidosis (e.g., prolonged fasting due to acute illness or surgery).

    5.4 Acute Kidney Injury and Impairment in Renal Function

  INVOKANA causes intravascular volume contraction [see  Warnings and Precautions (5.2)  ]  and can cause renal impairment [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . There have been postmarketing reports of acute kidney injury, some requiring hospitalization and dialysis, in patients receiving INVOKANA; some reports involved patients younger than 65 years of age.

 Before initiating INVOKANA, consider factors that may predispose patients to acute kidney injury including hypovolemia, chronic renal insufficiency, congestive heart failure and concomitant medications (diuretics, ACE inhibitors, ARBs, NSAIDs). Consider temporarily discontinuing INVOKANA in any setting of reduced oral intake (such as acute illness or fasting) or fluid losses (such as gastrointestinal illness or excessive heat exposure); monitor patients for signs and symptoms of acute kidney injury. If acute kidney injury occurs, discontinue INVOKANA promptly and institute treatment.

 INVOKANA increases serum creatinine and decreases eGFR. Patients with hypovolemia may be more susceptible to these changes. Renal function abnormalities can occur after initiating INVOKANA [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Renal function should be evaluated prior to initiation of INVOKANA and monitored periodically thereafter. Dosage adjustment and more frequent renal function monitoring are recommended in patients with an eGFR below 60 mL/min/1.73 m  2  . Use of INVOKANA is not recommended when eGFR is persistently less than 45 mL/min/1.73 m  2  and is contraindicated in patients with an eGFR less than 30 mL/min/1.73 m  2    [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  ,  Contraindications (4)  and  Use in Specific Populations (8.6)  ]  .

    5.5 Hyperkalemia

  INVOKANA can lead to hyperkalemia. Patients with moderate renal impairment who are taking medications that interfere with potassium excretion, such as potassium-sparing diuretics, or medications that interfere with the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system are at an increased risk of developing hyperkalemia [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  and  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  .

 Monitor serum potassium levels periodically after initiating INVOKANA in patients with impaired renal function and in patients predisposed to hyperkalemia due to medications or other medical conditions.

    5.6 Urosepsis and Pyelonephritis

  There have been postmarketing reports of serious urinary tract infections including urosepsis and pyelonephritis requiring hospitalization in patients receiving SGLT2 inhibitors, including INVOKANA. Treatment with SGLT2 inhibitors increases the risk for urinary tract infections. Evaluate patients for signs and symptoms of urinary tract infections and treat promptly, if indicated [see  Adverse Reactions (6)  ]  .

    5.7 Hypoglycemia with Concomitant Use with Insulin and Insulin Secretagogues

  Insulin and insulin secretagogues are known to cause hypoglycemia. INVOKANA can increase the risk of hypoglycemia when combined with insulin or an insulin secretagogue [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Therefore, a lower dose of insulin or insulin secretagogue may be required to minimize the risk of hypoglycemia when used in combination with INVOKANA.

    5.8 Genital Mycotic Infections

  INVOKANA increases the risk of genital mycotic infections. Patients with a history of genital mycotic infections and uncircumcised males were more likely to develop genital mycotic infections [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Monitor and treat appropriately.

    5.9 Hypersensitivity Reactions

  Hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema and anaphylaxis, have been reported with INVOKANA. These reactions generally occurred within hours to days after initiating INVOKANA. If hypersensitivity reactions occur, discontinue use of INVOKANA; treat and monitor until signs and symptoms resolve [see  Contraindications (4)  and  Adverse Reactions (6.1  ,  6.2)  ]  .

    5.10 Bone Fracture

  An increased risk of bone fracture, occurring as early as 12 weeks after treatment initiation, was observed in patients using INVOKANA. Consider factors that contribute to fracture risk prior to initiating INVOKANA [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  .

    5.11 Increases in Low-Density Lipoprotein (LDL-C)

  Dose-related increases in LDL-C occur with INVOKANA [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Monitor LDL-C and treat if appropriate after initiating INVOKANA.

    5.12 Macrovascular Outcomes

  There have been no clinical studies establishing conclusive evidence of macrovascular risk reduction with INVOKANA [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  .

