    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Pulmonary Toxicity: Permanently discontinue KADCYLA in patients diagnosed with interstitial lung disease or pneumonitis. (  2.2  ,  5.4  ) 
 *  Infusion-Related Reactions, Hypersensitivity Reactions: Monitor for signs and symptoms during and after infusion. If significant infusion-related reactions or hypersensitivity reactions occur, slow or interrupt the infusion and administer appropriate medical therapies. Permanently discontinue KADCYLA for life threatening infusion-related reaction. (  2.1  ,  2.2  ,  5.5  ) 
 *  Hemorrhage: Fatal cases of hemorrhage occurred in clinical trials among patients with no known identified risk factors, as well as among patients with thrombocytopenia and those receiving anti-coagulation and antiplatelet therapy. Use caution with these agents and consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary . (  5.6  ) 
 *  Thrombocytopenia: Monitor platelet counts prior to each KADCYLA dose. Institute dose modifications as appropriate. (  2.2  ,  5.7  ) 
 *  Neurotoxicity: Monitor for signs or symptoms. Withhold dosing temporarily for patients experiencing Grade 3 or 4 peripheral neuropathy. (  2.2  ,  5.8  ,  13.2  ) 
 *  HER2 Testing: Perform using FDA-approved tests by laboratories with demonstrated proficiency. (  5.9  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Hepatotoxicity



  Hepatotoxicity, predominantly in the form of asymptomatic, transient increases in the concentrations of serum transaminases, has been observed in clinical trials with KADCYLA [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Serious hepatobiliary disorders, including at least two fatal cases of severe drug-induced liver injury and associated hepatic encephalopathy, have been reported in clinical trials with KADCYLA. Some of the observed cases may have been confounded by comorbidities and/or concomitant medications with known hepatotoxic potential.



 Monitor serum transaminases and bilirubin prior to initiation of KADCYLA treatment and prior to each KADCYLA dose. Patients with known active hepatitis B virus or hepatitis C virus were excluded from Study 1 [see  Clinical Studies (14.1)  ]  . Reduce the dose or discontinue KADCYLA as appropriate in cases of increased serum transaminases and/or total bilirubin [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  ]  . Permanently discontinue KADCYLA treatment in patients with serum transaminases > 3 * ULN and concomitant total bilirubin > 2 * ULN. KADCYLA has not been studied in patients with serum transaminases > 2.5 * ULN or bilirubin > 1.5 * ULN prior to the initiation of treatment.



  In clinical trials of KADCYLA, cases of nodular regenerative hyperplasia (NRH) of the liver have been identified from liver biopsies (3 cases out of 884 treated patients, one of which was fatal). Two of these three cases of NRH were observed in the randomized trial (Study 1) [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . NRH is a rare liver condition characterized by widespread benign transformation of hepatic parenchyma into small regenerative nodules; NRH may lead to non-cirrhotic portal hypertension. The diagnosis of NRH can be confirmed only by histopathology. NRH should be considered in all patients with clinical symptoms of portal hypertension and/or cirrhosis-like pattern seen on the computed tomography (CT) scan of the liver but with normal transaminases and no other manifestations of cirrhosis. Upon diagnosis of NRH, KADCYLA treatment must be permanently discontinued.  



    5.2 Left Ventricular Dysfunction



  Patients treated with KADCYLA are at increased risk of developing left ventricular dysfunction. A decrease of LVEF to < 40% has been observed in patients treated with KADCYLA. In the randomized trial (Study 1), left ventricular dysfunction occurred in 1.8% of patients in the KADCYLA-treated group and 3.3% of patients in the lapatinib plus capecitabine-treated group [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  .



 Assess LVEF prior to initiation of KADCYLA and at regular intervals (e.g. every three months) during treatment to ensure the LVEF is within the institution's normal limits. Treatment with KADCYLA has not been studied in patients with LVEF < 50% prior to initiation of treatment. If, at routine monitoring, LVEF is < 40%, or is 40% to 45% with a 10% or greater absolute decrease below the pretreatment value, withhold KADCYLA and repeat LVEF assessment within approximately 3 weeks. Permanently discontinue KADCYLA if the LVEF has not improved or has declined further [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  ]  . Patients with a history of symptomatic congestive heart failure (CHF), serious cardiac arrhythmia, or history of myocardial infarction or unstable angina within 6 months were excluded from Study 1 [see  Clinical Studies (14.1)  ]  .



    5.3 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity



  KADCYLA can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of KADCYLA in pregnant women and no reproductive and developmental toxicology studies have been conducted with ado-trastuzumab emtansine. Nevertheless, treatment with trastuzumab, the antibody component of KADCYLA, during pregnancy in the postmarketing setting has resulted in oligohydramnios, some associated with fatal pulmonary hypoplasia, skeletal abnormalities and neonatal death. DM1, the cytotoxic component of KADCYLA, can be expected to cause embryo-fetal toxicity based on its mechanism of action.



  If KADCYLA is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while receiving KADCYLA or within 7 months following the last dose of KADCYLA, apprise the patient of the potential hazard to the fetus [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.1)  ]  .  



  Verify pregnancy status prior to the initiation of KADCYLA. Advise patients of the risks of embryo-fetal death and birth defects and the need for contraception during and after treatment. Advise patients to contact their healthcare provider immediately if they suspect they may be pregnant. If KADCYLA is administered during pregnancy or if a patient becomes pregnant while receiving KADCYLA or within 7 months following the last dose of KADCYLA, immediately report exposure to the Genentech Adverse Event Line at 1-888-835-2555. Encourage women who may be exposed during pregnancy or within 7 months prior to conception, to enroll in the MotHER Pregnancy Registry by contacting 1-800-690-6720 [see  Patient Counseling Information (17)  ]  .  



    5.4 Pulmonary Toxicity



  Cases of interstitial lung disease (ILD), including pneumonitis, some leading to acute respiratory distress syndrome or fatal outcome have been reported in clinical trials with KADCYLA. Pneumonitis at an incidence of 0.8% (7 out of 884 treated patients) has been reported, with one case of grade 3 pneumonitis. Signs and symptoms include dyspnea, cough, fatigue, and pulmonary infiltrates. These events may or may not occur as sequelae of infusion reactions. In the randomized trial (Study 1), the overall frequency of pneumonitis was 1.2% [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  .



 Permanently discontinue treatment with KADCYLA in patients diagnosed with ILD or pneumonitis.



 Patients with dyspnea at rest due to complications of advanced malignancy and co-morbidities may be at increased risk of pulmonary toxicity.



    5.5 Infusion-Related Reactions, Hypersensitivity Reactions



  Treatment with KADCYLA has not been studied in patients who had trastuzumab permanently discontinued due to infusion-related reactions (IRR) and/or hypersensitivity; treatment with KADCYLA is not recommended for these patients.



 Infusion-related reactions, characterized by one or more of the following symptoms - flushing, chills, pyrexia, dyspnea, hypotension, wheezing, bronchospasm, and tachycardia have been reported in clinical trials of KADCYLA. In the randomized trial (Study 1), the overall frequency of IRRs in patients treated with KADCYLA was 1.4% [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . In most patients, these reactions resolved over the course of several hours to a day after the infusion was terminated. KADCYLA treatment should be interrupted in patients with severe IRR. KADCYLA treatment should be permanently discontinued in the event of a life-threatening IRR [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  ]  . Patients should be observed closely for IRR reactions, especially during the first infusion.



 One case of a serious, allergic/anaphylactic-like reaction has been observed in clinical trials of single-agent KADCYLA. Medications to treat such reactions, as well as emergency equipment, should be available for immediate use.



    5.6 Hemorrhage



   Cases of hemorrhagic events, including central nervous system, respiratory, and gastrointestinal hemorrhage, have been reported in clinical trials with Kadcyla. Some of these bleeding events resulted in fatal outcomes. In the randomized trial (Study 1), the overall frequency of hemorrhage was 32.2% in the KADCYLA-treated group and 16.4% in the lapatinib plus capecitabine-treated group. The incidence of >= Grade 3 hemorrhage was 1.8% in the KADCYLA-treated group and 0.8% in the lapatinib plus capecitabine-treated group [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Although, in some of the observed cases the patients were also receiving anti-coagulation therapy, antiplatelet therapy, or had thrombocytopenia, in others there were no known additional risk factors. Use caution with these agents and consider additional monitoring when concomitant use is medically necessary.  



    5.7 Thrombocytopenia



  Thrombocytopenia, or decreased platelet count, was reported in clinical trials of KADCYLA (103 of 884 treated patients with >= Grade 3; 283 of 884 treated patients with any Grade). The majority of these patients had Grade 1 or 2 events (< LLN to >= 50,000/mm  3  ) with the nadir occurring by day 8 and generally improving to Grade 0 or 1 (>= 75,000 /mm  3  ) by the next scheduled dose. In clinical trials of KADCYLA, the incidence and severity of thrombocytopenia were higher in Asian patients.



 In the randomized trial (Study 1), the overall frequency of thrombocytopenia was 31.2% in the KADCYLA-treated group and 3.3% in the lapatinib plus capecitabine-treated group [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . The incidence of >= Grade 3 thrombocytopenia was 14.5% in the KADCYLA-treated group and 0.4% in the lapatinib plus capecitabine-treated group. In Asian patients, the incidence of >= Grade 3 thrombocytopenia was 45.1% in the KADCYLA-treated group and 1.3% in the lapatinib plus capecitabine-treated group.



 Monitor platelet counts prior to initiation of KADCYLA and prior to each KADCYLA dose [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  ]  . KADCYLA has not been studied in patients with platelet counts <100,000/mm  3  prior to initiation of treatment. In the event of decreased platelet count to Grade 3 or greater (< 50,000/mm  3  ) do not administer KADCYLA until platelet counts recover to Grade 1 (>= 75,000/mm  3  ) [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  ]  . Patients with thrombocytopenia (< 100,000/mm  3  ) and patients on anti-coagulant treatment should be closely monitored during treatment with KADCYLA.



    5.8 Neurotoxicity



  Peripheral neuropathy, mainly as Grade 1 and predominantly sensory, was reported in clinical trials of KADCYLA (14 of 884 treated patients with >= Grade 3; 196 of 884 treated patients with any Grade). In the randomized trial (Study 1), the overall frequency of peripheral neuropathy was 21.2% in the KADCYLA-treated group and 13.5% in the lapatinib plus capecitabine-treated group [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . The incidence of >= Grade 3 peripheral neuropathy was 2.2% in the KADCYLA-treated group and 0.2% in the lapatinib plus capecitabine-treated group.



 KADCYLA should be temporarily discontinued in patients experiencing Grade 3 or 4 peripheral neuropathy until resolution to <= Grade 2. Patients should be clinically monitored on an ongoing basis for signs or symptoms of neurotoxicity [see  Nonclinical Toxicology (13.2)  ]  .



    5.9 HER2 Testing



  Detection of HER2 protein overexpression or gene amplification is necessary for selection of patients appropriate for KADCYLA therapy because these are the only patients studied for whom benefit has been shown [see  Indications and Usage (1)  ,  Clinical Studies (14.1)  ]  . In the randomized study (Study 1), patients with breast cancer were required to have evidence of HER2 overexpression defined as 3+ IHC by Dako HerceptestTM or evidence of overexpression defined as FISH amplification ratio >= 2.0 by Dako HER2  FISH PharmDxTM test kit. Only limited data were available for patients whose breast cancer was positive by FISH and 0 or 1+ by IHC.



 Assessment of HER2 status should be performed by laboratories with demonstrated proficiency in the specific technology being utilized. Improper assay performance, including use of sub- optimally fixed tissue, failure to utilize specified reagents, deviation from specific assay instructions, and failure to include appropriate controls for assay validation, can lead to unreliable results.



    5.10 Extravasation



  In KADCYLA clinical studies, reactions secondary to extravasation have been observed. These reactions, observed more frequently within 24 hours of infusion, were usually mild and comprised erythema, tenderness, skin irritation, pain, or swelling at the infusion site. Specific treatment for KADCYLA extravasation is unknown. The infusion site should be closely monitored for possible subcutaneous infiltration during drug administration.
