   5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *  Anaphylactic reactions and allergic skin reactions, serious, occasionally fatal, may occur after first dose (  4   ,   5.7  ) 
 *  Hematologic (including agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia), and renal toxicities may occur after multiple doses (  5.6  ) 
 *  Hepatotoxicity: Severe, and sometimes fatal, hepatotoxicity has been reported. Discontinue immediately if signs and symptoms of hepatitis occur (  5.8  ) 
 *   Clostridium difficile -associated colitis: evaluate if diarrhea occurs (  5.9  ) 
 *  Prolongation of the QT interval and isolated cases of torsade de pointes have been reported. Avoid use in patients with known prolongation, those with hypokalemia, and with other drugs that prolong the QT interval (  5.10  ,  8.5  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Disabling and Potentially Irreversible Serious Adverse Reactions Including Tendinitis and Tendon Rupture, Peripheral Neuropathy, and Central Nervous System Effects

   Fluoroquinolones, including LEVAQUIN, have been associated with disabling and potentially irreversible serious adverse reactions from different body systems that can occur together in the same patient. Commonly seen adverse reactions include tendinitis, tendon rupture, arthralgia, myalgia, peripheral neuropathy, and central nervous system effects (hallucinations, anxiety, depression, insomnia, severe headaches, and confusion). These reactions can occur within hours to weeks after starting LEVAQUIN. Patients of any age or without pre-existing risk factors have experienced these adverse reactions [ see  Warnings and Precautions (5.2  ,  5.3  ,  5.4)    ].  

  Discontinue LEVAQUIN immediately at the first signs or symptoms of any serious adverse reaction. In addition, avoid the use of fluoroquinolones, including LEVAQUIN, in patients who have experienced any of these serious adverse reactions associated with fluoroquinolones.  

    5.2 Tendinitis and Tendon Rupture

  Fluoroquinolones, including LEVAQUIN  (r)  , have been associated with an increased risk of tendinitis and tendon rupture in all ages [see  Warnings and Precautions (5.1)  and  Adverse Reactions (6.2)  ]  . This adverse reaction most frequently involves the Achilles tendon And has also been reported with the rotator cuff (the shoulder), the hand, the biceps, the thumb, and other tendon sites. Tendinitis or tendon rupture can occur within hours or days of starting LEVAQUIN or as long as several months after completion of fluoroquinolone therapy. Tendinitis and tendon rupture can occur bilaterally.

 The risk of developing fluoroquinolone-associated tendinitis and tendon rupture is increased in patients over 60 years of age, in those taking corticosteroid drugs, and in patients with kidney, heart or lung transplants. Other factors that may independently increase the risk of tendon rupture include strenuous physical activity, renal failure, and previous tendon disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis. Tendinitis and tendon rupture have been reported in patients taking fluoroquinolones who do not have the above risk factors. Discontinue LEVAQUIN  (r)  immediately if the patient experiences pain, swelling, inflammation or rupture of a tendon. Patients should be advised to rest at the first sign of tendinitis or tendon rupture, and to contact their healthcare provider regarding changing to a non-quinolone antimicrobial drug. Avoid LEVAQUIN in patients who have a history of tendon disorders or tendon rupture [see  Adverse Reactions (6.3)    ;   Patient Counseling Information (17)  ]  .

    5.3 Peripheral Neuropathy

  Fluoroquinolones, including LEVAQUIN, have been associated with an increased risk of peripheral neuropathy. Cases of sensory or sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy affecting small and/or large axons resulting in paresthesias, hypoesthesias, dysesthesias and weakness have been reported in patients receiving fluoroquinolones, including LEVAQUIN  (r)  . Symptoms may occur soon after initiation of LEVAQUIN  (r)  and may be irreversible in some patients [see  Warnings and Precautions (5.1)  and  Adverse Reactions (6.1  ,  6.2)  ]  .

 Discontinue LEVAQUIN  (r)  immediately if the patient experiences symptoms of neuropathy including pain, burning, tingling, numbness, and/or weakness or other alterations of sensation including light touch, pain, temperature, position sense, and vibratory sensation. Avoid fluoroquinolones, including LEVAQUIN, in patients who have previously experienced peripheral neuropathy [see  Adverse Reactions (6)    ,   Patient Counseling Information (17)  ]  .

    5.4 Central Nervous System Effects

   Fluoroquinolones, including LEVAQUIN, have been associated with an increased risk of central nervous system (CNS) effects, including convulsions, toxic psychoses, increased intracranial pressure (including pseudotumor cerebri) . Fluoroquinolones may also cause central nervous system stimulation which may lead to tremors, restlessness, anxiety, lightheadedness, confusion, hallucinations, paranoia, depression, nightmares, and insomnia. Suicidal thoughts, and attempted or completed suicide may also occur, especially in patients with a medical history of depression, or an underlying risk factor for depression. These reactions may occur following the first dose. If these reactions occur in patients receiving LEVAQUIN  (r)  , discontinue LEVAQUIN and institute appropriate measures. As with other fluoroquinolones, LEVAQUIN  (r)  should be used with caution in patients with a known or suspected central nervous system (CNS) disorder that may predispose them to seizures or lower the seizure threshold (e.g., severe cerebral arteriosclerosis, epilepsy) or in the presence of other risk factors that may predispose them to seizures or lower the seizure threshold (e.g., certain drug therapy, renal dysfunction). [see  Adverse Reactions (6)    ;   Drug Interactions (7.4    ,   7.5)    ;   Patient Counseling Information (17)  ]  .  

    5.5 Exacerbation of Myasthenia Gravis

  Fluoroquinolones, including LEVAQUIN  (r)  , have neuromuscular blocking activity and may exacerbate muscle weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis. Postmarketing serious adverse reactions including deaths and requirement for ventilatory support, have been associated with fluoroquinolone use in patients with myasthenia gravis. Avoid LEVAQUIN  (r)  in patients with a known history of myasthenia gravis [see  Adverse Reactions (6.3)    ;   Patient Counseling Information (17)  ].  

    5.6 Other Serious and Sometimes Fatal Adverse Reactions

  Other serious and sometimes fatal adverse reactions, some due to hypersensitivity, and some due to uncertain etiology, have been reported rarely in patients receiving therapy with fluoroquinolones, including LEVAQUIN  (r)  . These events may be severe and generally occur following the administration of multiple doses. Clinical manifestations may include one or more of the following:

 *  fever, rash, or severe dermatologic reactions (e.g., toxic epidermal necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome); 
 *  vasculitis; arthralgia; myalgia; serum sickness; 
 *  allergic pneumonitis; 
 *  interstitial nephritis; acute renal insufficiency or failure; 
 *  hepatitis; jaundice; acute hepatic necrosis or failure; 
 *  anemia, including hemolytic and aplastic; thrombocytopenia, including thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura; leukopenia; agranulocytosis; pancytopenia; and/or other hematologic abnormalities. 
    Discontinue LEVAQUIN immediately at the first appearance of skin rash, jaundice, or any other sign of hypersensitivity and institute supportive measures [see  Adverse Reactions (6)  ;  Patient Counseling Information (17)  ]  .
 

    5.7 Hypersensitivity Reactions

  Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity and/or anaphylactic reactions have been reported in patients receiving therapy with fluoroquinolones, including LEVAQUIN  (r)  . These reactions often occur following the first dose. Some reactions have been accompanied by cardiovascular collapse, hypotension/shock, seizure, loss of consciousness, tingling, angioedema (including tongue, laryngeal, throat, or facial edema/swelling), airway obstruction (including bronchospasm, shortness of breath, and acute respiratory distress), dyspnea, urticaria, itching, and other serious skin reactions. LEVAQUIN  (r)  should be discontinued immediately at the first appearance of a skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. Serious acute hypersensitivity reactions may require treatment with epinephrine and other resuscitative measures, including oxygen, intravenous fluids, antihistamines, corticosteroids, pressor amines, and airway management, as clinically indicated [see  Adverse Reactions (6)  ;  Patient Counseling Information (17)  ]  .

    5.8 Hepatotoxicity

  Post-marketing reports of severe hepatotoxicity (including acute hepatitis and fatal events) have been received for patients treated with LEVAQUIN  (r).  No evidence of serious drug-associated hepatotoxicity was detected in clinical trials of over 7,000 patients. Severe hepatotoxicity generally occurred within 14 days of initiation of therapy and most cases occurred within 6 days. Most cases of severe hepatotoxicity were not associated with hypersensitivity [see  Warnings and Precautions (5.6)  ]  . The majority of fatal hepatotoxicity reports occurred in patients 65 years of age or older and most were not associated with hypersensitivity. LEVAQUIN  (r)  should be discontinued immediately if the patient develops signs and symptoms of hepatitis [see  Adverse Reactions (6)  ;  Patient Counseling Information (17)  ].  

    5.9 Clostridium difficile-Associated Diarrhea

   Clostridium difficile  -associated diarrhea (CDAD) has been reported with use of nearly all antibacterial agents, including LEVAQUIN  (r)  , and may range in severity from mild diarrhea to fatal colitis. Treatment with antibacterial agents alters the normal flora of the colon leading to overgrowth of C. difficile  .

  C. difficile  produces toxins A and B which contribute to the development of CDAD. Hypertoxin producing strains of C. difficile  cause increased morbidity and mortality, as these infections can be refractory to antimicrobial therapy and may require colectomy. CDAD must be considered in all patients who present with diarrhea following antibiotic use. Careful medical history is necessary since CDAD has been reported to occur over two months after the administration of antibacterial agents.

 If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, ongoing antibiotic use not directed against C. difficile  may need to be discontinued. Appropriate fluid and electrolyte management, protein supplementation, antibiotic treatment of C. difficile  , and surgical evaluation should be instituted as clinically indicated [see  Adverse Reactions (6.2)    ,   Patient Counseling Information (17)  ]  .

    5.10 Prolongation of the QT Interval

  Some fluoroquinolones, including LEVAQUIN  (r)  , have been associated with prolongation of the QT interval on the electrocardiogram and infrequent cases of arrhythmia. Rare cases of torsade de pointes have been spontaneously reported during postmarketing surveillance in patients receiving fluoroquinolones, including LEVAQUIN  (r)  . LEVAQUIN  (r)  should be avoided in patients with known prolongation of the QT interval, patients with uncorrected hypokalemia, and patients receiving Class IA (quinidine, procainamide), or Class III (amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic agents. Elderly patients may be more susceptible to drug-associated effects on the QT interval [see  Adverse Reactions (6.3)    ,   Use in Specific Populations (8.5)    , and   Patient Counseling Information (17)  ]  .

    5.11 Musculoskeletal Disorders in Pediatric Patients and Arthropathic Effects in Animals

  LEVAQUIN  (r)  is indicated in pediatric patients (6 months of age and older) only for the prevention of inhalational anthrax (post-exposure) and for plague [see  Indications and Usage (1.7    ,   1.8)    ]. An increased incidence of musculoskeletal disorders (arthralgia, arthritis, tendinopathy, and gait abnormality) compared to controls has been observed in pediatric patients receiving LEVAQUIN  (r)   [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.4)  ]  .

 In immature rats and dogs, the oral and intravenous administration of levofloxacin resulted in increased osteochondrosis. Histopathological examination of the weight-bearing joints of immature dogs dosed with levofloxacin revealed persistent lesions of the cartilage. Other fluoroquinolones also produce similar erosions in the weight-bearing joints and other signs of arthropathy in immature animals of various species [see  Animal Toxicology and/or Pharmacology (13.2)  ]  .

    5.12 Blood Glucose Disturbances

  As with other fluoroquinolones, disturbances of blood glucose, including symptomatic hyper- and hypoglycemia, have been reported with LEVAQUIN  (r)  , usually in diabetic patients receiving concomitant treatment with an oral hypoglycemic agent (e.g., glyburide) or with insulin. In these patients, careful monitoring of blood glucose is recommended. If a hypoglycemic reaction occurs in a patient being treated with LEVAQUIN  (r)  , LEVAQUIN  (r)  should be discontinued and appropriate therapy should be initiated immediately [see  Adverse Reactions (6.2)    ;   Drug Interactions (7.3)    ;   Patient Counseling Information (17)  ]  .

    5.13 Photosensitivity/Phototoxicity

  Moderate to severe photosensitivity/phototoxicity reactions, the latter of which may manifest as exaggerated sunburn reactions (e.g., burning, erythema, exudation, vesicles, blistering, edema) involving areas exposed to light (typically the face, "V" area of the neck, extensor surfaces of the forearms, dorsa of the hands), can be associated with the use of fluoroquinolones after sun or UV light exposure. Therefore, excessive exposure to these sources of light should be avoided. Drug therapy should be discontinued if photosensitivity/phototoxicity occurs [see  Adverse Reactions (6.3)    ;   Patient Counseling Information (17)  ]  .

    5.14 Development of Drug Resistant Bacteria

  Prescribing LEVAQUIN  (r)  in the absence of a proven or strongly suspected bacterial infection or a prophylactic indication is unlikely to provide benefit to the patient and increases the risk of the development of drug-resistant bacteria [see  Patient Counseling Information (17)  ]  .

