    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *     Gastrointestinal perforation : Consider the overall risk benefit in patients with known or suspected lesions of the GI tract. Monitor for severe, persistent or worsening abdominal pain; discontinue if development of symptoms  (5.1)   
 *     Opioid withdrawal : Consider the overall risk benefit in patients with disruptions to the blood-brain barrier. Monitor for symptoms of opioid withdrawal  (5.2)   
    
 

   5.1 Gastrointestinal Perforation



  Cases of gastrointestinal perforation have been reported with use of another peripherally acting opioid antagonist in patients with conditions that may be associated with localized or diffuse reduction of structural integrity in the wall of the gastrointestinal tract (e.g., peptic ulcer disease, Ogilvie's syndrome, diverticular disease, infiltrative gastrointestinal tract malignancies or peritoneal metastases). Take into account the overall risk-benefit profile when using MOVANTIK in patients with these conditions or other conditions which might result in impaired integrity of the gastrointestinal tract wall (e.g., Crohn's disease). Monitor for the development of severe, persistent or worsening abdominal pain; discontinue MOVANTIK in patients who develop this symptom [ see     Contraindications (4)    ].



    5.2 Opioid Withdrawal



  Clusters of symptoms consistent with opioid withdrawal, including hyperhidrosis, chills, diarrhea, abdominal pain, anxiety, irritability, and yawning have occurred in patients treated with MOVANTIK [ see     Adverse Reactions (6.1)    ]. In addition, patients receiving methadone as therapy for their pain condition were observed in clinical trials to have a higher frequency of gastrointestinal adverse reactions that may have been related to opioid withdrawal than patients receiving other opioids [ see     Adverse Reactions (6.1)    ]. Patients having disruptions to the blood-brain barrier may be at increased risk for opioid withdrawal or reduced analgesia. Take into account the overall risk-benefit profile when using MOVANTIK in such patients. Monitor for symptoms of opioid withdrawal in such patients.
