    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Other ERAs cause hepatotoxicity and liver failure. Obtain baseline liver enzymes and monitor as clinically indicated (  5.3  ). 
 *  Decreases in hemoglobin (  5.4  ). 
 *  Pulmonary edema in patients with pulmonary veno-occlusive disease. If confirmed, discontinue treatment (  5.5  ). 
 *  Decreases in sperm count have been observed in patients taking ERAs (  5.6  ). 
    
 

   5.1 Embryo-fetal Toxicity



  OPSUMIT may cause fetal harm when administered during pregnancy and is contraindicated for use in females who are pregnant. In females of reproductive potential, exclude pregnancy prior to initiation of therapy, ensure use of acceptable contraceptive methods and obtain monthly pregnancy tests [see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)  and  Use in Specific Populations (8.1  ,  8.6)  ]  .



 OPSUMIT is available for females through the OPSUMIT REMS Program, a restricted distribution program [see  Warnings and Precautions (5.2)  ]  .



    5.2 OPSUMIT REMS Program



  For all females, OPSUMIT is available only through a restricted program called the OPSUMIT REMS Program, because of the risk of embryo-fetal toxicity [see  Contraindications (4.1)  ,  Warnings and Precautions (5.1)  , and  Use in Specific Populations (8.1  ,  8.6)  ]  .



 Notable requirements of the OPSUMIT REMS Program include the following:



 *  Prescribers must be certified with the program by enrolling and completing training. 
 *  All females, regardless of reproductive potential, must enroll in the OPSUMIT REMS Program prior to initiating OPSUMIT. Male patients are not enrolled in the REMS. 
 *  Females of reproductive potential must comply with the pregnancy testing and contraception requirements [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.6)  ] . 
 *  Pharmacies must be certified with the program and must only dispense to patients who are authorized to receive OPSUMIT. 
    Further information is available at www.OPSUMITREMS.com or 1-866-228-3546. Information on OPSUMIT certified pharmacies or wholesale distributors is available through Actelion Pathways at 1-866-228-3546.
 

    5.3 Hepatotoxicity



  Other ERAs have caused elevations of aminotransferases, hepatotoxicity, and liver failure. The incidence of elevated aminotransferases in the study of OPSUMIT in PAH is shown in Table 1.



 Table 1 Incidence of Elevated Aminotransferases in the SERAPHIN Study 
                                           OPSUMIT 10 mg(N=242)                  Placebo(N=249)             
  
 >3 * ULN                                          3.4%                               4.5%                  
 >8 * ULN                                          2.1%                               0.4%                  
         In the placebo-controlled study of OPSUMIT, discontinuations for hepatic adverse events were 3.3% in the OPSUMIT 10 mg group vs. 1.6% for placebo. Obtain liver enzyme tests prior to initiation of OPSUMIT and repeat during treatment as clinically indicated.
 

 Advise patients to report symptoms suggesting hepatic injury (nausea, vomiting, right upper quadrant pain, fatigue, anorexia, jaundice, dark urine, fever, or itching). If clinically relevant aminotransferase elevations occur, or if elevations are accompanied by an increase in bilirubin >2 * ULN, or by clinical symptoms of hepatotoxicity, discontinue OPSUMIT. Consider re-initiation of OPSUMIT when hepatic enzyme levels normalize in patients who have not experienced clinical symptoms of hepatotoxicity.



    5.4 Hemoglobin Decrease



  Decreases in hemoglobin concentration and hematocrit have occurred following administration of other ERAs and were observed in clinical studies with OPSUMIT. These decreases occurred early and stabilized thereafter. In the placebo-controlled study of OPSUMIT in PAH, OPSUMIT 10 mg caused a mean decrease in hemoglobin from baseline to up to 18 months of about 1.0 g/dL compared to no change in the placebo group. A decrease in hemoglobin to below 10.0 g/dL was reported in 8.7% of the OPSUMIT 10 mg group and in 3.4% of the placebo group. Decreases in hemoglobin seldom require transfusion. Initiation of OPSUMIT is not recommended in patients with severe anemia. Measure hemoglobin prior to initiation of treatment and repeat during treatment as clinically indicated [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  .



    5.5 Pulmonary Edema with Pulmonary Veno-occlusive Disease (PVOD)



  Should signs of pulmonary edema occur, consider the possibility of associated PVOD. If confirmed, discontinue OPSUMIT.



    5.6 Decreased Sperm Counts



  Other ERAs have caused adverse effects on spermatogenesis. Counsel men about potential effects on fertility [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.6)  and  Nonclinical Toxicology (13.1)  ]  .
