   5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *   Hepatotoxicity : Inform patients of warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity. Discontinue if abnormal liver tests persist or worsen or if clinical signs and symptoms of liver disease develop (  5.3  ) 
 *   Hypertension : Patients taking some antihypertensive medications may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs. Monitor blood pressure (  5.4  ,  7  ) 
 *   Heart Failure and Edema : Avoid use of PENNSAID in patients with severe heart failure unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening heart failure (  5.5  ) 
 *   Renal Toxicity : Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia. Avoid use of PENNSAID in patients with advanced renal disease unless benefits are expected to outweigh risk of worsening renal function (  5.6  ) 
 *   Anaphylactic Reactions : Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs (  5.7  ) 
 *   Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity : PENNSAID is contraindicated in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma. Monitor patients with preexisting asthma (without aspirin sensitivity) (  5.8  ) 
 *   Serious Skin Reactions : Discontinue PENNSAID at first appearance of skin rash or other signs of hypersensitivity. (  5.9  ,  5.14  ) 
 *   Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus : Avoid use in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks gestation (  5.10  ,  8.1  ) 
 *   Hematologic Toxicity : Monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit in patients with any signs or symptoms of anemia (  5.11  ,  7  ). 
 *   Exposure to light: Avoid exposure of treated knee(s) to natural or artificial sunlight. (  5.11  ) 
 *   Eye Contact : Avoid contact of PENNSAID with eyes and mucosa. (  5.15  ) 
 *   Oral Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs : Avoid concurrent use with oral NSAIDs. (  5.16  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Cardiovascular Thrombotic Events

   Clinical trials of several COX-2 selective and nonselective NSAIDs of up to three years duration have shown an increased risk of serious cardiovascular (CV) thrombotic events, including myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke, which can be fatal. Based on available data, it is unclear that the risk for CV thrombotic events is similar for all NSAIDs. The relative increase in serious CV thrombotic events over baseline conferred by NSAID use appears to be similar in those with and without known CV disease or risk factors for CV disease. However, patients with known CV disease or risk factors had a higher absolute incidence of excess serious CV thrombotic events, due to their increased baseline rate. Some observational studies found that this increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events began as early as the first weeks of treatment. The increase in CV thrombotic risk has been observed most consistently at higher doses.  

 To minimize the potential risk for an adverse CV event in NSAID-treated patients, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Physicians and patients should remain alert for the development of such events, throughout the entire treatment course, even in the absence of previous CV symptoms. Patients should be informed about the symptoms of serious CV events and the steps to take if they occur.

 There is no consistent evidence that concurrent use of aspirin mitigates the increased risk of serious CV thrombotic events associated with NSAID use. The concurrent use of aspirin and an NSAID, such as diclofenac, increases the risk of serious gastrointestinal (GI) events [ see  Warnings and Precautions (5.2)    ].

    Status Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) Surgery  

 Two large, controlled, clinical trials of a COX-2 selective NSAID for the treatment of pain in the first 10-14 days following CABG surgery found an increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. NSAIDs are contraindicated in the setting of CABG [ see  Contraindications (4)    ].

    Post-MI Patients  

 Observational studies conducted in the Danish National Registry have demonstrated that patients treated with NSAIDs in the post-MI period were at increased risk of reinfarction, CV-related death, and all-cause mortality beginning in the first week of treatment. In this same cohort, the incidence of death in the first year post-MI was 20 per 100 person years in NSAID-treated patients compared to 12 per 100 person years in non-NSAID exposed patients. Although the absolute rate of death declined somewhat after the first year post-MI, the increased relative risk of death in NSAID users persisted over at least the next four years of follow-up.

 Avoid the use of PENNSAID in patients with a recent MI unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of recurrent CV thrombotic events. If PENNSAID is used in patients with a recent MI, monitor patients for signs of cardiac ischemia.

    5.2 Gastrointestinal Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation

  NSAIDs, including diclofenac, cause serious gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events including inflammation, bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, or large intestine, which can be fatal. These serious adverse events can occur at any time, with or without warning symptoms, in patients treated with NSAIDs. Only one in five patients who develop a serious upper GI adverse event on NSAID therapy is symptomatic. Upper GI ulcers, gross bleeding, or perforation caused by NSAIDs occurred in approximately 1% of patients treated for 3-6 months, and in about 2%-4% of patients treated for one year. However, even short-term NSAID therapy is not without risk.

    Risk Factors for GI Bleeding, Ulceration, and Perforation  

 Patients with a prior history of peptic ulcer disease and/or GI bleeding who used NSAIDs had a greater than 10-fold increased risk for developing a GI bleed compared to patients without these risk factors. Other factors that increase the risk of GI bleeding in patients treated with NSAIDs include longer duration of NSAID therapy; concomitant use of oral corticosteroids, aspirin, anticoagulants, or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs); smoking; use of alcohol; older age; and poor general health status. Most postmarketing reports of fatal GI events occurred in elderly or debilitated patients. Additionally, patients with advanced liver disease and/or coagulopathy are at increased risk for GI bleeding.

    Strategies to Minimize the GI Risks in NSAID-treated patients:  

 *  Use the lowest effective dosage for the shortest possible duration. 
 *  Avoid administration of more than one NSAID at a time. 
 *  Avoid use in patients at higher risk unless benefits are expected to outweigh the increased risk of bleeding. For such patients, as well as those with active GI bleeding, consider alternate therapies other than NSAIDs. 
 *  Remain alert for signs and symptoms of GI ulceration and bleeding during NSAID therapy. 
 *  If a serious GI adverse event is suspected, promptly initiate evaluation and treatment, and discontinue PENNSAID until a serious GI adverse event is ruled out. 
 *  In the setting of concomitant use of low-dose aspirin for cardiac prophylaxis, monitor patients more closely for evidence of GI bleeding [ see  Drug Interactions (7)   ]. 
       5.3 Hepatotoxicity
 

  In clinical trials of oral diclofenac containing products, meaningful elevations (i.e., more than 3 times the ULN) of AST (SGOT) occurred in about 2% of approximately 5,700 patients at some time during diclofenac treatment (ALT was not measured in all studies).

 In a large, open-label, controlled trial of 3,700 patients treated with oral diclofenac for 2 - 6 months, patients were monitored first at 8 weeks and 1,200 patients were monitored again at 24 weeks. Meaningful elevations of ALT and/or AST occurred in about 4% of 3,700 patients and included marked elevations (greater than 8 times the ULN) in about 1% of the 3,700 patients. In that open-label study, a higher incidence of borderline (less than 3 times the ULN), moderate (3 to 8 times the ULN), and marked (greater than 8 times the ULN) elevations of ALT or AST was observed in patients receiving diclofenac when compared to other NSAIDs. Elevations in transaminases were seen more frequently in patients with osteoarthritis than in those with rheumatoid arthritis.

 Almost all meaningful elevations in transaminases were detected before patients became symptomatic. Abnormal tests occurred during the first 2 months of therapy with oral diclofenac in 42 of the 51 patients in all trials who developed marked transaminase elevations.

 In postmarketing reports, cases of drug-induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in the first month, and in some cases, the first 2 months of NSAID therapy, but can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac.

 Postmarketing surveillance has reported cases of severe hepatic reactions, including liver necrosis, jaundice, fulminant hepatitis with and without jaundice, and liver failure. Some of these reported cases resulted in fatalities or liver transplantation.

 In a European retrospective population-based, case-controlled study, 10 cases of oral diclofenac associated drug-induced liver injury with current use compared with non-use of diclofenac were associated with a statistically significant 4-fold adjusted odds ratio of liver injury. In this particular study, based on an overall number of 10 cases of liver injury associated with diclofenac, the adjusted odds ratio increased further with female gender, doses of 150 mg or more, and duration of use for more than 90 days.

 Physicians should measure transaminases at baseline and periodically in patients receiving long-term therapy with diclofenac, because severe hepatotoxicity may develop without a prodrome of distinguishing symptoms. The optimum times for making the first and subsequent transaminase measurements are not known. Based on clinical trial data and postmarketing experiences, transaminases should be monitored within 4 to 8 weeks after initiating treatment with diclofenac. However, severe hepatic reactions can occur at any time during treatment with diclofenac.

 If abnormal liver tests persist or worsen, if clinical signs and/or symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, abdominal pain, diarrhea, dark urine, etc.), PENNSAID should be discontinued immediately.

 Inform patients of the warning signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity (e.g., nausea, fatigue, lethargy, diarrhea, pruritus, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness, and "flu-like" symptoms). If clinical signs and symptoms consistent with liver disease develop, or if systemic manifestations occur (e.g., eosinophilia, rash, etc.), discontinue PENNSAID immediately, and perform a clinical evaluation of the patient.

 To minimize the potential risk for an adverse liver-related event in patients treated with PENNSAID, use the lowest effective dose for the shortest duration possible. Exercise caution when prescribing PENNSAID with concomitant drugs that are known to be potentially hepatotoxic (e.g., acetaminophen, antibiotics, antiepileptics).

    5.4 Hypertension

  NSAIDs, including PENNSAID, can lead to new onset of hypertension or worsening of preexisting hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of CV events. Patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, thiazide diuretics, or loop diuretics may have impaired response to these therapies when taking NSAIDs [ see  Drug Interactions (7)    ].

 Monitor blood pressure (BP) during the initiation of NSAID treatment and throughout the course of therapy.

    5.5 Heart Failure and Edema

   The Coxib and traditional NSAID Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials demonstrated an approximately two-fold increase in hospitalizations for heart failure in COX-2 selective treated patients and nonselective NSAID-treated patients compared to placebo-treated patients. In a Danish National Registry study of patients with heart failure, NSAID use increased the risk of MI, hospitalization for heart failure, and death.  

 Additionally, fluid retention and edema have been observed in some patients treated with NSAIDs. Use of diclofenac may blunt the CV effects of several therapeutic agents used to treat these medical conditions (e.g., diuretics, ACE inhibitors, or angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]) [ see  Drug Interactions (7)    ].

 Avoid the use of PENNSAID in patients with severe heart failure unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening heart failure. If PENNSAID is used in patients with severe heart failure, monitor patients for signs of worsening heart failure.

    5.6 Renal Toxicity and Hyperkalemia

   Renal Toxicity  

 Long-term administration of NSAIDs has resulted in renal papillary necrosis and other renal injury.

 Renal toxicity has also been seen in patients in whom renal prostaglandins have a compensatory role in the maintenance of renal perfusion. In these patients, administration of an NSAID may cause a dose-dependent reduction in prostaglandin formation and, secondarily, in renal blood flow, which may precipitate overt renal decompensation. Patients at greatest risk of this reaction are those with impaired renal function, dehydration, hypovolemia, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and ACE-inhibitors or ARBs, and the elderly. Discontinuation of NSAID therapy is usually followed by recovery to the pretreatment state.

 No information is available from controlled clinical studies regarding the use of PENNSAID in patients with advanced renal disease. The renal effects of PENNSAID may hasten the progression of renal dysfunction in patients with preexisting renal disease.

 Correct volume status in dehydrated or hypovolemic patients prior to initiating PENNSAID. Monitor renal function in patients with renal or hepatic impairment, heart failure, dehydration, or hypovolemia during use of PENNSAID [ see  Drug Interactions (7)    ]. Avoid the use of PENNSAID in patients with advanced renal disease unless the benefits are expected to outweigh the risk of worsening renal function. If PENNSAID is used in patients with advanced renal disease, monitor patients for signs of worsening renal function.

    Hyperkalemia  

 Increases in serum potassium concentration, including hyperkalemia, have been reported with use of NSAIDs, even in some patients without renal impairment. In patients with normal renal function, these effects have been attributed to a hyporeninemic-hypoaldosteronism state.

    5.7 Anaphylactic Reactions

  Diclofenac has been associated with anaphylactic reactions in patients with and without known hypersensitivity to diclofenac and in patients with aspirin-sensitive asthma [ see  Contraindications (4)  and  Warnings and Precautions (5.8)    ].

 Seek emergency help if an anaphylactic reaction occurs.

    5.8 Exacerbation of Asthma Related to Aspirin Sensitivity

  A subpopulation of patients with asthma may have aspirin-sensitive asthma which may include chronic rhinosinusitis complicated by nasal polyps; severe, potentially fatal bronchospasm; and/or intolerance to aspirin and other NSAIDs. Because cross-reactivity between aspirin and other NSAIDs has been reported in such aspirin-sensitive patients, PENNSAID is contraindicated in patients with this form of aspirin sensitivity [ see  Contraindications (4)    ]. When PENNSAID is used in patients with preexisting asthma (without known aspirin sensitivity), monitor patients for changes in the signs and symptoms of asthma.

    5.9 Serious Skin Reactions

  NSAIDs, including diclofenac, can cause serious skin adverse reactions such as exfoliative dermatitis, Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS), and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), which can be fatal. These serious events may occur without warning. Inform patients about the signs and symptoms of serious skin reactions, and to discontinue the use of PENNSAID at the first appearance of skin rash or any other sign of hypersensitivity. PENNSAID is contraindicated in patients with previous serious skin reactions to NSAIDs [ see  Contraindications (4)    ].

 Do not apply PENNSAID to open skin wounds, infections, inflammations, or exfoliative dermatitis, as it may affect absorption and tolerability of the drug.

    5.10 Premature Closure of Fetal Ductus Arteriosus

  Diclofenac may cause premature closure of the fetal ductus arteriosus. Avoid use of NSAIDs, including PENNSAID, in pregnant women starting at 30 weeks of gestation (third trimester) [ see  Use in Specific Populations (8.1)    ].

    5.11 Hematologic Toxicity

  Anemia has occurred in NSAID-treated patients. This may be due to occult or gross blood loss, fluid retention, or an incompletely described effect on erythropoiesis. If a patient treated with PENNSAID has any signs or symptoms of anemia, monitor hemoglobin or hematocrit.

 NSAIDs, including PENNSAID, may increase the risk of bleeding events. Co-morbid conditions such as coagulation disorders or concomitant use of warfarin, other anticoagulants, antiplatelet agents (e.g., aspirin), serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may increase this risk. Monitor these patients for signs of bleeding [ see  Drug Interactions (7)    ].

    5.12 Masking of Inflammation and Fever

  The pharmacological activity of PENNSAID in reducing inflammation, and possibly fever, may diminish the utility of diagnostic signs in detecting infections.

    5.13 Laboratory Monitoring

  Because serious GI bleeding, hepatotoxicity, and renal injury can occur without warning symptoms or signs, consider monitoring patients on long-term NSAID treatment with a CBC and a chemistry profile periodically [ see  Warnings and Precautions (5.2  ,  5.3  ,  5.6)    ].

    5.14 Sun Exposure

  Instruct patients to avoid exposure to natural or artificial sunlight on treated knee(s) because studies in animals indicated topical diclofenac treatment resulted in an earlier onset of ultraviolet light-induced skin tumors. The potential effects of PENNSAID on skin response to ultraviolet damage in humans are not known.

    5.15 Eye Exposure

  Avoid contact of PENNSAID with eyes and mucosa. Advise patients that if eye contact occurs, immediately wash out the eye with water or saline and consult a physician if irritation persists for more than an hour.

    5.16 Oral Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs

  Concomitant use of oral NSAIDs with PENNSAID 1.5% resulted in a higher rate of rectal hemorrhage, more frequent abnormal creatinine, urea and hemoglobin. Therefore, do not use combination therapy with PENNSAID and an oral NSAID unless the benefit outweighs the risk and conduct periodic laboratory evaluations.

