   5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *  CYP2C19 inhibitors: Avoid concomitant use of omeprazole or esomeprazole. (  5.1  ) 
 *  Bleeding: Plavix increases risk of bleeding. (  5.2  ) 
 *  Discontinuation: Premature discontinuation increases risk of cardiovascular events. Discontinue 5 days prior to elective surgery that has a major risk of bleeding. (  5.3  ) 
 *  Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) has been reported. (  5.4  ) 
 *  Cross-reactivity among thienopyridines has been reported. (  5.5  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Diminished Antiplatelet Activity in Patients with Impaired CYP2C19 Function

  Clopidogrel is a prodrug. Inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel is achieved through an active metabolite. The metabolism of clopidogrel to its active metabolite can be impaired by genetic variations in CYP2C19 [see  Boxed Warning  ].  

 The metabolism of clopidogrel can also be impaired by drugs that inhibit CYP2C19, such as omeprazole or esomeprazole. Avoid concomitant use of Plavix with omeprazole or esomeprazole because both significantly reduce the antiplatelet activity of Plavix [see  Drug Interactions (7.1)  ]  .

    5.2 General Risk of Bleeding

  Thienopyridines, including Plavix, increase the risk of bleeding.

 Thienopyridines inhibit platelet aggregation for the lifetime of the platelet (7-10 days). Because the half-life of clopidogrel's active metabolite is short, it may be possible to restore hemostasis by administering exogenous platelets; however, platelet transfusions within 4 hours of the loading dose or 2 hours of the maintenance dose may be less effective.

    5.3 Discontinuation of Plavix

  Discontinuation of Plavix increases the risk of cardiovascular events. If Plavix must be temporarily discontinued (e.g., to treat bleeding or for surgery with a major risk of bleeding), restart it as soon as possible. When possible, interrupt therapy with Plavix for five days prior to such surgery. Resume Plavix as soon as hemostasis is achieved.

    5.4 Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (TTP)

  TTP, sometimes fatal, has been reported following use of Plavix, sometimes after a short exposure (<2 weeks). TTP is a serious condition that requires urgent treatment including plasmapheresis (plasma exchange). It is characterized by thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (schistocytes [fragmented RBCs] seen on peripheral smear), neurological findings, renal dysfunction, and fever [see  Adverse Reactions (6.2)  ].  

    5.5 Cross-Reactivity among Thienopyridines

  Hypersensitivity including rash, angioedema or hematologic reaction has been reported in patients receiving Plavix, including patients with a history of hypersensitivity or hematologic reaction to other thienopyridines [see  Contraindications (4.2)  and  Adverse Reactions (6.2)  ]  .

