    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *   Gastrointestinal perforation : Consider the overall risk benefit in patients with known or suspected lesions of the GI tract. Monitor for severe, persistent or worsening abdominal pain; discontinue if development of symptoms (  5.1  ) 
 *   Severe or persistent diarrhea : Discontinue if severe or persistent diarrhea occurs during treatment (  5.2  ) 
 *   Opioid withdrawal : Consider the overall risk benefit in patients with disruptions to the blood-brain barrier. Monitor closely for symptoms of opioid withdrawal (  5.3  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Gastrointestinal Perforation



   Cases of gastrointestinal perforation have been reported in adult patients with opioid-induced constipation and advanced illness with conditions that may be associated with localized or diffuse reduction of structural integrity in the wall of the gastrointestinal tract (e.g., peptic ulcer disease, Ogilvie's syndrome, diverticular disease, infiltrative gastrointestinal tract malignancies or peritoneal metastases). Take into account the overall risk-benefit profile when using RELISTOR in patients with these conditions or other conditions which might result in impaired integrity of the gastrointestinal tract wall (e.g., Crohn's disease). Monitor for the development of severe, persistent, or worsening abdominal pain; discontinue RELISTOR in patients who develop this symptom [see Contraindications (  4  )]  .  



    5.2 Severe or Persistent Diarrhea



  If severe or persistent diarrhea occurs during treatment, advise patients to discontinue therapy with RELISTOR and consult their healthcare provider.



    5.3 Opioid Withdrawal



   Symptoms consistent with opioid withdrawal, including hyperhidrosis, chills, diarrhea, abdominal pain, anxiety, and yawning have occurred in patients treated with RELISTOR [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  . Patients having disruptions to the blood-brain barrier may be at increased risk for opioid withdrawal and/or reduced analgesia. Take into account the overall risk-benefit profile when using RELISTOR in such patients. Monitor for adequacy of analgesia and symptoms of opioid withdrawal in such patients.  
