

    BOXED WARNING: WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS and MALIGNANCY

    WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS and MALIGNANCY  

  EXCERPT:   WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS and MALIGNANCY

   See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning.  

 *  Increased risk of serious infections leading to hospitalization or death, including tuberculosis (TB), bacterial sepsis, invasive fungal infections (such as histoplasmosis) and infections due to other opportunistic pathogens. 
 *  Discontinue REMICADE if a patient develops a serious infection. 
 *  Perform test for latent TB; if positive, start treatment for TB prior to starting REMICADE. Monitor all patients for active TB during treatment, even if initial latent TB test is negative. (5.1) 
 *  Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, have been reported in children and adolescent patients treated with tumor necrosis factor (TNF) blockers, including REMICADE. 
 *  Postmarketing cases of fatal hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTCL) have been reported in patients treated with TNF blockers including REMICADE. Almost all had received azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine concomitantly with a TNF-blocker at or prior to diagnosis. The majority of REMICADE cases were reported in patients with Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis, most of whom were adolescent or young adult males. (5.2) 
    
 

    SERIOUS INFECTIONS  

   Patients treated with REMICADE  (r)   are at increased risk for developing serious infections that may lead to hospitalization or death   [see   Warnings and Precautions (5.1)   and   Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Most patients who developed these infections were taking concomitant immunosuppressants such as methotrexate or corticosteroids.    

   REMICADE should be discontinued if a patient develops a serious infection or sepsis.    

   Reported infections include:  

 *  Active tuberculosis, including reactivation of latent tuberculosis. Patients with tuberculosis have frequently presented with disseminated or extrapulmonary disease. Patients should be tested for latent tuberculosis before REMICADE use and during therapy.1,2 Treatment for latent infection should be initiated prior to REMICADE use. 
 *  Invasive fungal infections, including histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, candidiasis, aspergillosis, blastomycosis, and pneumocystosis. Patients with histoplasmosis or other invasive fungal infections may present with disseminated, rather than localized, disease. Antigen and antibody testing for histoplasmosis may be negative in some patients with active infection. Empiric anti-fungal therapy should be considered in patients at risk for invasive fungal infections who develop severe systemic illness. 
 *  Bacterial, viral and other infections due to opportunistic pathogens, including Legionella and Listeria. 
      The risks and benefits of treatment with REMICADE should be carefully considered prior to initiating therapy in patients with chronic or recurrent infection.  
 

   Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with REMICADE, including the possible development of tuberculosis in patients who tested negative for latent tuberculosis infection prior to initiating therapy.  

     MALIGNANCY  

   Lymphoma and other malignancies, some fatal, have been reported in children and adolescent patients treated with TNF blockers, including REMICADE   [see   Warnings and Precautions (5.2)  ]  .            

   Postmarketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (HSTCL), a rare type of T-cell lymphoma, have been reported in patients treated with TNF blockers including REMICADE. These cases have had a very aggressive disease course and have been fatal. Almost all patients had received treatment with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine concomitantly with a TNF-blocker at or prior to diagnosis. The majority of reported REMICADE cases have occurred in patients with Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis and most were in adolescent and young adult males.  

