     5        WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS  



   EXCERPT:    *   Hypocortisolism:  Decreases in circulating levels of cortisol may occur resulting in biochemical and/or clinical hypocortisolism. SIGNIFOR dose reduction or interruption and/or adding a low-dose short-term glucocorticoid may be necessary (  5.1  ) 
 *   Hyperglycemia and Diabetes  (occurs with initiation): Intensive glucose monitoring is recommended and may require initiation or adjustment of anti-diabetic treatment per standard of care (  5.2  ) 
 *   Bradycardia and QT Prolongation:  Use with caution in at-risk patients; ECG testing prior to dosing and on treatment (  5.3  ,  7.1  ) 
 *   Liver Test Elevations:  Evaluate liver tests prior to and during treatment (  5.4  ) 
 *   Cholelithiasis:  Perform gallbladder ultrasounds before starting treatment and at 6-month intervals (  5.5  ) 
    
 

   5.1       Hypocortisolism



  Treatment with SIGNIFOR leads to suppression of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secretion in Cushing's disease. Suppression of ACTH may lead to a decrease in circulating levels of cortisol and potentially hypocortisolism.



 Monitor and instruct patients on the signs and symptoms associated with hypocortisolism (e.g., weakness, fatigue, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, hypotension, hyponatremia or hypoglycemia). If hypocortisolism occurs, consider temporary dose reduction or interruption of treatment with SIGNIFOR, as well as temporary, exogenous glucocorticoid replacement therapy.



    5.2       Hyperglycemia and Diabetes 



  Elevations in blood glucose levels have been seen in healthy volunteers and patients treated with SIGNIFOR. In the Phase III trial, the development of pre-diabetes and diabetes was observed  [see Clinical Studies (14)]  . In this trial, nearly all patients-including those with normal glucose status at baseline, pre-diabetes, and diabetes-developed worsening glycemia in the first two weeks of treatment. Cushing's disease patients with poor glycemic control (as defined by HbA1c values >8% while receiving anti-diabetic therapy) may be at a higher risk of developing severe hyperglycemia and associated complications, e.g., ketoacidosis. 



 Because of this predictable adverse reaction, the glycemic status [fasting plasma glucose (FPG) or hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c)] should be assessed prior to starting treatment with SIGNIFOR. In patients with uncontrolled diabetes mellitus intensive anti-diabetic therapy should be optimized prior to treatment with SIGNIFOR. Self-monitoring of blood glucose and/or FPG assessments should be done every week for the first two to three months and periodically thereafter, as clinically appropriate, as well as over the first two to four weeks after any dose increase. After treatment discontinuation, glycemic monitoring (e.g., FPG or HbA1c) should be done according to clinical practice. Patients who were initiated on anti-diabetic therapy as a result of SIGNIFOR may require closer monitoring after discontinuation of SIGNIFOR, especially if the anti-diabetic therapy has a risk of causing hypoglycemia.



 If hyperglycemia develops in a patient treated with SIGNIFOR, the initiation or adjustment of anti-diabetic treatment per standard of care is recommended. The optimal treatment for the management of SIGNIFOR-induced hyperglycemia is not known. If uncontrolled hyperglycemia persists, despite appropriate medical management, the dose of SIGNIFOR should be reduced or discontinued.



    5.3       Bradycardia and QT Prolongation



   Bradycardia  



 Bradycardia has been reported with the use of SIGNIFOR  [see Adverse Reactions (6)]  . Patients with cardiac disease and/or risk factors for bradycardia, such as history of clinically significant bradycardia, high-grade heart block, or concomitant use of drugs associated with bradycardia, should be carefully monitored. Dose adjustments of beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, or correction of electrolyte disturbances may be necessary.



  QT Prolongation  



 SIGNIFOR is associated with QT prolongation. In two thorough QT studies with SIGNIFOR, QT prolongation occurred at therapeutic and supra-therapeutic doses. SIGNIFOR should be used with caution in patients who are at significant risk of developing prolongation of QTc, such as those:



 *  with congenital long QT prolongation. 
 *  with uncontrolled or significant cardiac disease including recent myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, unstable angina or clinically significant bradycardia. 
 *  on anti-arrhythmic therapy or other substances that are known to lead to QT prolongation. 
 *  with hypokalemia and/or hypomagnesemia. 
    A baseline ECG is recommended prior to initiating therapy with SIGNIFOR and monitoring for an effect on the QTc interval is advisable. Hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia must be corrected prior to SIGNIFOR administration and should be monitored periodically during therapy. 
 

    5.4       Liver Test Elevations



  In the Phase III trial, 5% of patients had an ALT or AST level greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). In the entire clinical development program of SIGNIFOR, there were 4 cases of concurrent elevations in ALT (alanine aminotransferase) greater than 3 x ULN and bilirubin greater than 2 x ULN: one patient with Cushing's disease and three healthy volunteers [see Adverse Reactions (6   )]  . In these cases, total bilirubin elevations were seen either concomitantly or preceding the transaminase elevation.



 Monitoring of liver tests should be done after 1 to 2 weeks on treatment, then monthly for 3 months, and every 6 months thereafter. If ALT is normal at baseline and elevations of ALT of 3-5 times the ULN are observed on treatment, repeat the test within a week or within 48 hours if exceeding 5 times ULN. If ALT is abnormal at baseline and elevations of ALT of 3-5 times the baseline values are observed on treatment, repeat the test within a week or sooner if exceeding 5 times ULN. Tests should be done in a laboratory that can provide same-day results. If the values are confirmed or rising, interrupt SIGNIFOR treatment and investigate for probable cause of the findings, which may or may not be SIGNIFOR-related. Serial measures of ALT, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin, should be done weekly, or more frequently, if any value exceeds 5 times the baseline value in case of abnormal baselines or 5 times the ULN in case of normal baselines. If resolution of abnormalities to normal or near normal occurs, resuming treatment with SIGNIFOR may be done cautiously, with close observation, and only if some other likely cause has been found.



    5.5       Cholelithiasis 



  Cholelithiasis has been frequently reported in clinical studies with SIGNIFOR  [see Adverse Reactions (6)]  . Ultrasonic examination of the gallbladder before, and at 6- to 12-month intervals during SIGNIFOR therapy is recommended.



    5.6       Monitoring for Deficiency of Pituitary Hormones



  As the pharmacological activity of SIGNIFOR mimics that of somatostatin, inhibition of pituitary hormones, other than ACTH, may occur. Monitoring of pituitary function (e.g., TSH/free T4, GH/IGF-1) should occur prior to initiation of therapy with SIGNIFOR and periodically during treatment should be considered as clinically appropriate. Patients who have undergone transsphenoidal surgery and pituitary irradiation are particularly at increased risk for deficiency of pituitary hormones. 
