    5  WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Do not initiate STRIVERDI RESPIMAT in acutely deteriorating COPD patients (  5.2  ) 
 *  Do not use for relief of acute symptoms. Concomitant short-acting beta2-agonists can be used as needed for acute relief. (  5.2  ) 
 *  Do not exceed the recommended dose. Excessive use of STRIVERDI RESPIMAT, or use in conjunction with other medications containing LABA can result in clinically significant cardiovascular effects and may be fatal. (  5.3  ) 
 *  Life-threatening paradoxical bronchospasm can occur. Discontinue STRIVERDI RESPIMAT immediately. (  5.4  ) 
 *  Use with caution in patients with cardiovascular or convulsive disorders, thyrotoxicosis or sensitivity to sympathomimetic drugs (  5.5  ,  5.6  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Asthma-Related Death [ see Boxed Warning  ]



    *   Data from a large placebo-controlled study in asthma patients showed that long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists may increase the risk of asthma-related death. Data are not available to determine whether the rate of death in patients with COPD is increased by long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists.  
 *   A 28-week, placebo-controlled US study comparing the safety of another long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonist (salmeterol) with placebo, each added to usual asthma therapy, showed an increase in asthma-related deaths in patients receiving salmeterol (13/13,176 in patients treated with salmeterol vs. 3/13,179 in patients treated with placebo; RR 4.37, 95% CI 1.25, 15.34). The increased risk of asthma-related death is considered a class effect of long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists, including STRIVERDI RESPIMAT. No study adequate to determine whether the rate of asthma-related death is increased in patients treated with STRIVERDI RESPIMAT has been conducted. The safety and efficacy of STRIVERDI RESPIMAT in patients with asthma have not been established. STRIVERDI RESPIMAT is not indicated for the treatment of asthma [ see Contraindications (  4  ) ].  
       5.2 Deterioration of Disease and Acute Episodes
 

  STRIVERDI RESPIMAT should not be initiated in patients with acutely deteriorating COPD, which may be a life-threatening condition. STRIVERDI RESPIMAT has not been studied in patients with acutely deteriorating COPD. The use of STRIVERDI RESPIMAT in this setting is inappropriate.



 STRIVERDI RESPIMAT should not be used for the relief of acute symptoms, i.e., as rescue therapy for the treatment of acute episodes of bronchospasm. STRIVERDI RESPIMAT has not been studied in the relief of acute symptoms and extra doses should not be used for that purpose. Acute symptoms should be treated with an inhaled short-acting beta2-agonist.



 When beginning STRIVERDI RESPIMAT, patients who have been taking inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonists on a regular basis (e.g., four times a day) should be instructed to discontinue the regular use of these drugs and use them only for symptomatic relief of acute respiratory symptoms. When prescribing STRIVERDI RESPIMAT, the healthcare provider should also prescribe an inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist and instruct the patient on how it should be used. Increasing inhaled beta2-agonist use is a signal of deteriorating disease for which prompt medical attention is indicated.



 COPD may deteriorate acutely over a period of hours or chronically over several days or longer. If STRIVERDI RESPIMAT no longer controls symptoms of bronchoconstriction, or the patient's inhaled, short-acting beta2-agonist becomes less effective or the patient needs more inhalation of short-acting beta2-agonist than usual, these may be markers of deterioration of disease. In this setting, a re-evaluation of the patient and the COPD treatment regimen should be undertaken at once. Increasing the daily dosage of STRIVERDI RESPIMAT beyond the recommended dose is not appropriate in this situation.



    5.3 Excessive Use of STRIVERDI RESPIMAT and Use with Long-Acting Beta2-Agonists



  As with other inhaled drugs containing beta2-adrenergic agents, STRIVERDI RESPIMAT should not be used more often than recommended, at higher doses than recommended, or in conjunction with other medications containing long-acting beta2-agonists, as an overdose may result. Clinically significant cardiovascular effects and fatalities have been reported in association with excessive use of inhaled sympathomimetic drugs.



    5.4 Paradoxical Bronchospasm



  As with other inhaled beta2-agonists, STRIVERDI RESPIMAT may produce paradoxical bronchospasm that may be life-threatening. If paradoxical bronchospasm occurs, STRIVERDI RESPIMAT should be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted.



    5.5 Cardiovascular Effects



  STRIVERDI RESPIMAT, like other beta2-agonists, can produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in pulse rate, systolic or diastolic blood pressure, and/or symptoms. If such effects occur, STRIVERDI RESPIMAT may need to be discontinued. In addition, beta-agonists have been reported to produce ECG changes, such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of the QTc interval, and ST segment depression. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown. Long acting beta2-adrenergic agonists should be administered with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary insufficiency, cardiac arrhythmias, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, and hypertension.



    5.6 Co-existing Conditions



  STRIVERDI RESPIMAT, like other sympathomimetic amines, should be used with caution in patients with convulsive disorders or thyrotoxicosis, in patients with known or suspected prolongation of the QT interval, and in patients who are unusually responsive to sympathomimetic amines. Doses of the related beta2-agonist albuterol, when administered intravenously, have been reported to aggravate pre-existing diabetes mellitus and ketoacidosis.



    5.7 Hypokalemia and Hyperglycemia



  Beta-adrenergic agonists may produce significant hypokalemia in some patients, which has the potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects [ see Clinical Pharmacology (  12.2  )  ]. The decrease in serum potassium is usually transient, not requiring supplementation. Inhalation of high doses of beta2-adrenergic agonists may produce increases in plasma glucose.



 In patients with severe COPD, hypokalemia may be potentiated by hypoxia and concomitant treatment [ see Drug Interactions (  7.2  )  ], which may increase the susceptibility for cardiac arrhythmias.



 Clinically notable decreases in serum potassium or changes in blood glucose were infrequent during clinical studies with long-term administration of STRIVERDI RESPIMAT with the rates similar to those for placebo controls. STRIVERDI RESPIMAT has not been investigated in patients whose diabetes mellitus is not well controlled.



    5.8 Hypersensitivity Reactions



  Immediate hypersensitivity reactions, including angioedema, may occur after administration of STRIVERDI RESPIMAT. If such a reaction occurs, therapy with STRIVERDI RESPIMAT should be stopped at once and alternative treatment should be considered.
