

    BOXED WARNING: 

    WARNING: EMBRYO-FETAL TOXICITY AND VENOUS THROMBOEMBOLISM  

   EMBRYO-FETAL TOXICITY  

   If thalidomide is taken during pregnancy, it can cause severe birth defects or embryo-fetal death. Thalidomide should never be used by females who are pregnant or who could become pregnant while taking the drug. Even a single dose [1 capsule (regardless of strength)] taken by a pregnant woman during her pregnancy can cause severe birth defects.  

   Because of this toxicity and in an effort to make the chance of embryo-fetal exposure to THALOMID  (r)   (thalidomide) as negligible as possible, THALOMID  (r)   (thalidomide) is approved for marketing only through a special restricted distribution program: THALOMID REMS  (r)   program, approved by the Food and Drug Administration.  

   You can get the information about THALOMID and the THALOMID REMS program on the Internet at www.celgeneriskmanagement.com or by calling the manufacturer's toll-free number 1-888-423-5436.  

   VENOUS THROMBOEMBOLISM  

   The use of THALOMID  (r)   (thalidomide) in multiple myeloma results in an increased risk of venous thromboembolism, such as deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism.  This risk increases significantly when thalidomide is used in combination with standard chemotherapeutic agents including dexamethasone. In one controlled trial, the rate of venous thromboembolism was 22.5% in patients receiving thalidomide in combination with dexamethasone compared to 4.9% in patients receiving dexamethasone alone (p = 0.002). Patients and physicians are advised to be observant for the signs and symptoms of thromboembolism. Instruct patients to seek medical care if they develop symptoms such as shortness of breath, chest pain, or arm or leg swelling. Consider thromboprophylaxis based on an assessment of individual patients' underlying risk factors.  

   EXCERPT:     WARNING: EMBRYO-FETAL TOXICITY AND VENOUS THROMBOEMBOLISM  

     See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning.    

   EMBRYO-FETAL TOXICITY  

 *  If thalidomide is taken during pregnancy, it can cause severe birth defects or embryo-fetal death. Thalidomide should never be used by females who are pregnant or who could be pregnant while taking the drug. Even a single dose [1 capsule (regardless of strength)] taken by a pregnant woman during her pregnancy can cause severe birth defects. 
 *  Pregnancy must be excluded before start of treatment. Prevent pregnancy thereafter by the use of two reliable methods of contraception. (5.1, 8.3) 
      THALOMID  (r)   (thalidomide) is only available through a restricted distribution program, the THALOMID REMS  (r)   program (  5.2  ).  
 

   VENOUS THROMBOEMBOLISM  

 *  Significant increased risk of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) in patients with multiple myeloma receiving THALOMID(r) (thalidomide) with dexamethasone (5.3). 
    

