    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *   ALT Elevations : Discontinue ethinyl estradiol-containing medications prior to starting VIEKIRA PAK (alternative contraceptive methods are recommended). Perform hepatic laboratory testing on all patients during the first 4 weeks of treatment. For ALT elevations on VIEKIRA PAK, monitor closely and follow recommendations in full prescribing information. (  5.1  ) 
 *   Risks Associated With Ribavirin Combination Treatment : If VIEKIRA PAK is administered with ribavirin, the warnings and precautions for ribavirin also apply to this combination regimen. (  5.2  ) 
 *   Drug Interactions : The concomitant use of VIEKIRA PAK and certain other drugs may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions, some of which may lead to loss of therapeutic effect of VIEKIRA PAK. (  5.3  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Increased Risk of ALT Elevations



  During clinical trials with VIEKIRA PAK with or without ribavirin, elevations of ALT to greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) occurred in approximately 1% of all subjects [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  . ALT elevations were typically asymptomatic, occurred during the first 4 weeks of treatment, and declined within two to eight weeks of onset with continued dosing of VIEKIRA PAK with or without ribavirin.



 These ALT elevations were significantly more frequent in female subjects who were using ethinyl estradiol-containing medications such as combined oral contraceptives, contraceptive patches or contraceptive vaginal rings. Ethinyl estradiol-containing medications must be discontinued prior to starting therapy with VIEKIRA PAK [see Contraindications (  4  )]  . Alternative methods of contraception (e.g, progestin only contraception or non-hormonal methods) are recommended during VIEKIRA PAK therapy. Ethinyl estradiol-containing medications can be restarted approximately 2 weeks following completion of treatment with VIEKIRA PAK.



 Women using estrogens other than ethinyl estradiol, such as estradiol and conjugated estrogens used in hormone replacement therapy had a rate of ALT elevation similar to those not receiving any estrogens; however, due to the limited number of subjects taking these other estrogens, caution is warranted for co-administration with VIEKIRA PAK [see Adverse Reactions (  6.1  )]  .



 Hepatic laboratory testing should be performed during the first 4 weeks of starting treatment and as clinically indicated thereafter. If ALT is found to be elevated above baseline levels, it should be repeated and monitored closely:



 *  Patients should be instructed to consult their health care professional without delay if they have onset of fatigue, weakness, lack of appetite, nausea and vomiting, jaundice or discolored feces. 
 *  Consider discontinuing VIEKIRA PAK if ALT levels remain persistently greater than 10 times the ULN. 
 *  Discontinue VIEKIRA PAK if ALT elevation is accompanied by signs or symptoms of liver inflammation or increasing conjugated bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, or INR. 
       5.2 Risks Associated With Ribavirin Combination Treatment
 

  If VIEKIRA PAK is administered with ribavirin, the warnings and precautions for ribavirin, in particular the pregnancy avoidance warning, apply to this combination regimen. Refer to the ribavirin prescribing information for a full list of the warnings and precautions for ribavirin.



    5.3 Risk of Adverse Reactions or Reduced Therapeutic Effect Due to Drug Interactions



  The concomitant use of VIEKIRA PAK and certain other drugs may result in known or potentially significant drug interactions, some of which may lead to:



 *  Loss of therapeutic effect of VIEKIRA PAK and possible development of resistance 
 *  Possible clinically significant adverse reactions from greater exposures of concomitant drugs or components of VIEKIRA PAK. 
    See Table 5 for steps to prevent or manage these possible and known significant drug interactions, including dosing recommendations [see Drug Interactions (  7  )]  . Consider the potential for drug interactions prior to and during VIEKIRA PAK therapy; review concomitant medications during VIEKIRA PAK therapy; and monitor for the adverse reactions associated with the concomitant drugs [see Contraindications (  4  ) and Drug Interactions (  7  )]  .
 

    5.4 Risk of HIV-1 Protease Inhibitor Drug Resistance in HCV/HIV-1 Co-infected Patients



  The ritonavir component of VIEKIRA PAK is also an HIV-1 protease inhibitor and can select for HIV-1 protease inhibitor resistance-associated substitutions. Any HCV/HIV-1 co-infected patients treated with VIEKIRA PAK should also be on a suppressive antiretroviral drug regimen to reduce the risk of HIV-1 protease inhibitor drug resistance.
