    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Serotonin Syndrome: Increased risk when co-administered with other serotonergic agents (e.g., SSRI, SNRI, triptans), but also when taken alone. If it occurs, discontinue VIIBRYD and initiate supportive treatment (  5.2  ) 
 *  Increased Risk of Bleeding: Concomitant use of aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), other antiplatelet drugs, warfarin, and other anticoagulants may increase this risk (  5.3  ) 
 *  Activation of Mania/Hypomania: Screen patients for bipolar disorder (  5.4  ). 
 *  Seizures: Can occur with treatment. Use with caution in patients with a seizure disorder (  5.6  ). 
 *  Angle Closure Glaucoma: Avoid use of antidepressants, including VIIBRYD, in patients with untreated anatomically narrow angles. (  5.7  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Suicidal Thoughts and Behavior in Children, Adolescents and Young Adults



  In pooled analyses of placebo-controlled trials of antidepressant drugs (SSRIs and other antidepressant classes) that included approximately 77,000 adult patients, and over 4,400 pediatric patients, the incidence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in patients age 24 years and younger was greater in antidepressant-treated patients than in placebo-treated patients. The drug-placebo differences in the number of cases of suicidal thoughts and behaviors per 1000 patients treated are provided in  Table 1  .



 No suicides occurred in any of the pediatric studies. There were suicides in the adult studies, but the number was not sufficient to reach any conclusion about antidepressant drug effect on suicide.



 Table 1: Risk Differences of the Number of Patients with Suicidal Thoughts or Behaviors in the Pooled Placebo-Controlled Trials of Antidepressants in Pediatric and Adult Patients 
  Age Range (years)     Drug-Placebo Difference in Number of Patients with Suicidal Thoughts or Behaviors per 1000 Patients Treated     
                      Increases Compared to Placebo                                                      
 <18                 14 additional patients                                                              
 18-24               5 additional patients                                                               
                      Decreases Compared to Placebo                                                      
 25-64               1 fewer patient                                                                     
 >=65                6 fewer patients                                                                    
        It is unknown whether the risk of suicidal thoughts and behaviors in children, adolescents, and young adults extends to longer-term use, i.e., beyond four months. However, there is substantial evidence from placebo-controlled maintenance studies in adults with MDD that antidepressants delay the recurrence of depression.
 

 Monitor all antidepressant-treated patients for clinical worsening and emergence of suicidal thoughts and behaviors, especially during the initial few months of drug therapy and at times of dosage changes. Counsel family members or caregivers of patients to monitor for changes in behavior and to alert the healthcare provider. Consider changing the therapeutic regimen, including possibly discontinuing VIIBRYD, in patients whose depression is persistently worse, or who are experiencing emergent suicidal thoughts or behaviors.



       5.2 Serotonin Syndrome



     SNRIs and SSRIs, including VIIBRYD, can precipitate serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition. The risk is increased with concomitant use of other serotonergic drugs (including triptans, tricyclic antidepressants, fentanyl, lithium, tramadol, tryptophan, buspirone, and St. John's Wort) and with drugs that impair metabolism of serotonin, i.e., MAOIs [see Contraindications (  4  ) and Drug Interactions (  7  )].  Serotonin syndrome can also occur when these drugs are used alone. Symptoms of serotonin syndrome were noted in 0.1% of MDD patients treated with VIIBRYD in premarketing clinical trials.



    Serotonin syndrome signs and symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, delirium, and coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, dizziness, diaphoresis, flushing, hyperthermia), neuromuscular symptoms (e.g., tremor, rigidity, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, incoordination), seizures, and gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, vomiting, diarrhea).



    The concomitant use of VIIBRYD with MAOIs is contraindicated. In addition, do not initiate VIIBRYD in a patient being treated with MAOIs such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue. No reports involved the administration of methylene blue by other routes (such as oral tablets or local tissue injection). If it is necessary to initiate treatment with an MAOI such as linezolid or intravenous methylene blue in a patient taking VIIBRYD, discontinue VIIBRYD before initiating treatment with the MAOI [see Contraindications (  4  ), Drug Interactions (  7.1  )].  



    Monitor all patients taking VIIBRYD for the emergence of serotonin syndrome. Discontinue treatment with VIIBRYD and any concomitant serotonergic agents immediately if the above symptoms occur, and initiate supportive symptomatic treatment. If concomitant use of VIIBRYD with other serotonergic drugs is clinically warranted, inform patients of the increased risk for serotonin syndrome and monitor for symptoms.



    5.3 Increased Risk of Bleeding



  Drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake inhibition, including VIIBRYD, increase the risk of bleeding events. Concomitant use of aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), other antiplatelet drugs, warfarin, and other anticoagulants may add to this risk. Case reports and epidemiological studies (case-control and cohort design) have demonstrated an association between use of drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake and the occurrence of gastrointestinal bleeding. Bleeding events related to drugs that interfere with serotonin reuptake have ranged from ecchymosis, hematoma, epistaxis, and petechiae to life-threatening hemorrhages.



 Inform patients about the risk of bleeding associated with the concomitant use of VIIBRYD and antiplatelet agents or anticoagulants. For patients taking warfarin, carefully monitor coagulation indices when initiating, titrating, or discontinuing VIIBRYD.



    5.4 Activation of Mania or Hypomania



  In patients with bipolar disorder, treating a depressive episode with VIIBRYD or another antidepressant may precipitate a mixed/manic episode. In controlled clinical trials, patients with bipolar disorder were excluded; however, symptoms of mania or hypomania were reported in 0.1% of undiagnosed patients treated with VIIBRYD. Prior to initiating treatment with VIIBRYD, screen patients for any personal or family history of bipolar disorder, mania, or hypomania [see Dosage and Administration (  2.2  )]  .



    5.5 Discontinuation Syndrome



  Adverse reactions after discontinuation of serotonergic antidepressants, particularly after abrupt discontinuation, include: nausea, sweating, dysphoric mood, irritability, agitation, dizziness, sensory disturbances (e.g., paresthesia, such as electric shock sensations), tremor, anxiety, confusion, headache, lethargy, emotional lability, insomnia, hypomania, tinnitus, and seizures. A gradual reduction in dosage rather than abrupt cessation is recommended whenever possible [see Dosage and Administration (  2.5  )]  .



    5.6 Seizures



  VIIBRYD has not been systematically evaluated in patients with a seizure disorder. Patients with a history of seizures were excluded from clinical studies. VIIBRYD should be prescribed with caution in patients with a seizure disorder.



       5.7 Angle-Closure Glaucoma



     The pupillary dilation that occurs following use of many antidepressant drugs including VIIBRYD may trigger an angle closure attack in a patient with anatomically narrow angles who does not have a patent iridectomy. Avoid use of antidepressants, including VIIBRYD, in patients with untreated anatomically narrow angles.



    5.8 Hyponatremia



  Hyponatremia may occur as a result of treatment with SNRIs and SSRIs, including VIIBRYD. Cases of serum sodium lower than 110 mmol/L have been reported. Signs and symptoms of hyponatremia include headache, difficulty concentrating, memory impairment, confusion, weakness, and unsteadiness, which may lead to falls. Signs and symptoms associated with more severe and/or acute cases have included hallucination, syncope, seizure, coma, respiratory arrest, and death. In many cases, this hyponatremia appears to be the result of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH).



 In patients with symptomatic hyponatremia, discontinue VIIBRYD and institute appropriate medical intervention. Elderly patients, patients taking diuretics, and those who are volume-depleted may be at greater risk of developing hyponatremia with SSRIs and SNRIs [see Use in Specific Populations (  8.5  )]  .
