    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Monitor patients for suicidal behavior and ideation (  5.1  ) 
 *  VIMPAT may cause dizziness and ataxia (  5.2  ) 
 *  Cardiac Rhythm and Conduction Abnormalities: ECG before beginning VIMPAT, and after VIMPAT is titrated to steady-state maintenance dose is recommended in patients with known cardiac conduction problems, taking drugs known to induce PR interval prolongation, or with severe cardiac disease (  5.3  ) 
 *  VIMPAT may cause syncope (  5.4  ) 
 *  VIMPAT should be gradually withdrawn to minimize the potential of increased seizure frequency (  5.5  ) 
 *  Multiorgan Hypersensitivity Reactions (  5.6  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Suicidal Behavior and Ideation



  Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), including VIMPAT, increase the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior in patients taking these drugs for any indication. Patients treated with any AED for any indication should be monitored for the emergence or worsening of depression, suicidal thoughts or behavior, and/or any unusual changes in mood or behavior.



 Pooled analyses of 199 placebo-controlled clinical trials (mono- and adjunctive therapy) of 11 different AEDs showed that patients randomized to one of the AEDs had approximately twice the risk (adjusted Relative Risk 1.8, 95% CI:1.2, 2.7) of suicidal thinking or behavior compared to patients randomized to placebo. In these trials, which had a median treatment duration of 12 weeks, the estimated incidence of suicidal behavior or ideation among 27,863 AED-treated patients was 0.43%, compared to 0.24% among 16,029 placebo-treated patients, representing an increase of approximately one case of suicidal thinking or behavior for every 530 patients treated. There were four suicides in drug-treated patients in the trials and none in placebo-treated patients, but the number of events is too small to allow any conclusion about drug effect on suicide.



 The increased risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior with AEDs was observed as early as one week after starting treatment with AEDs and persisted for the duration of treatment assessed. Because most trials included in the analysis did not extend beyond 24 weeks, the risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior beyond 24 weeks could not be assessed.



 The risk of suicidal thoughts or behavior was generally consistent among drugs in the data analyzed. The finding of increased risk with AEDs of varying mechanisms of action and across a range of indications suggests that the risk applies to all AEDs used for any indication. The risk did not vary substantially by age (5-100 years) in the clinical trials analyzed.



 Table 1 shows absolute and relative risk by indication for all evaluated AEDs.



 Table 1 Risk by Indication for Antiepileptic Drugs in the Pooled Analysis 
 Indication            Placebo Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients  Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients  Relative Risk: Incidence of Events in Drug Patients/Incidence in Placebo Patients  Risk Difference: Additional Drug Patients with Events Per 1000 Patients   
  
 Epilepsy                      1.0                   3.4                   3.5                   2.4            
 Psychiatric                   5.7                   8.5                   1.5                   2.9            
 Other                         1.0                   1.8                   1.9                   0.9            
 Total                         2.4                   4.3                   1.8                   1.9            
           The relative risk for suicidal thoughts or behavior was higher in clinical trials for epilepsy than in clinical trials for psychiatric or other conditions, but the absolute risk differences were similar.
 

 Anyone considering prescribing VIMPAT or any other AED must balance this risk with the risk of untreated illness. Epilepsy and many other illnesses for which antiepileptics are prescribed are themselves associated with morbidity and mortality and an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior. Should suicidal thoughts and behavior emerge during treatment, the prescriber needs to consider whether the emergence of these symptoms in any given patient may be related to the illness being treated.



 Patients, their caregivers, and families should be informed that AEDs increase the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior and should be advised of the need to be alert for the emergence or worsening of the signs and symptoms of depression, any unusual changes in mood or behavior, or the emergence of suicidal thoughts, behavior, or thoughts about self-harm. Behaviors of concern should be reported immediately to healthcare providers.



    5.2 Dizziness and Ataxia



  VIMPAT may cause dizziness and ataxia.



 In patients with partial-onset seizures taking 1 to 3 concomitant AEDs, dizziness was experienced by 25% of patients randomized to the recommended doses (200 to 400 mg/day) of VIMPAT (compared with 8% of placebo patients) and was the adverse event most frequently leading to discontinuation (3%). Ataxia was experienced by 6% of patients randomized to the recommended doses (200 to 400 mg/day) of VIMPAT (compared to 2% of placebo patients). The onset of dizziness and ataxia was most commonly observed during titration. There was a substantial increase in these adverse events at doses higher than 400 mg/day [ see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)    ].



    5.3 Cardiac Rhythm and Conduction Abnormalities



   PR interval prolongation  



 Dose-dependent prolongations in PR interval with VIMPAT have been observed in clinical studies in patients and in healthy volunteers [ see  Clinical Pharmacology (12.2)    ]. In adjunctive clinical trials in patients with partial-onset epilepsy, asymptomatic first-degree atrioventricular (AV) block was observed as an adverse reaction in 0.4% (4/944) of patients randomized to receive VIMPAT and 0% (0/364) of patients randomized to receive placebo. In clinical trials in patients with diabetic neuropathy, asymptomatic first-degree AV block was observed as an adverse reaction in 0.5% (5/1023) of patients receiving VIMPAT and 0% (0/291) of patients receiving placebo. Second degree and complete AV block have been reported in patients in pain studies and in patients with seizures. When VIMPAT is given with other drugs that prolong the PR interval, further PR prolongation is possible.



  VIMPAT should be used with caution in patients with known conduction problems (e.g., marked first-degree AV block, second-degree or higher AV block and sick sinus syndrome without pacemaker), sodium channelopathies (e.g., Brugada Syndrome), on concomitant medications that prolong PR interval, or with severe cardiac disease such as myocardial ischemia or heart failure, or structural heart disease. In such patients, obtaining an ECG before beginning VIMPAT, and after VIMPAT is titrated to steady-state maintenance dose, is recommended. In addition, these patients should be closely monitored if they are administered VIMPAT through the intravenous route. One case of profound bradycardia was observed in a patient during a 15-minute infusion of 150 mg VIMPAT. There were two postmarketing reports of third degree AV block in patients with significant cardiac history and also receiving metoprolol and amlodipine during infusion of VIMPAT injection at doses higher than recommended [ see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ,  Drug Interactions (7.2)  ].    



    Atrial fibrillation and Atrial flutter  



 In the short-term investigational trials of VIMPAT in epilepsy patients, there were no cases of atrial fibrillation or flutter. Both atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter have been reported in open label epilepsy trials and in postmarketing experience. In patients with diabetic neuropathy, 0.5% of patients treated with VIMPAT experienced an adverse reaction of atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter, compared to 0% of placebo-treated patients. VIMPAT administration may predispose to atrial arrhythmias (atrial fibrillation or flutter), especially in patients with diabetic neuropathy and/or cardiovascular disease.



    5.4 Syncope



   In the short-term controlled trials of VIMPAT in epilepsy patients with no significant system illnesses, there was no increase in syncope compared to placebo. In the short-term controlled trials of VIMPAT in patients with diabetic neuropathy, 1.2% of patients who were treated with VIMPAT reported an adverse reaction of syncope or loss of consciousness, compared to 0% of placebo-treated patients with diabetic neuropathy. Most of the cases of syncope were observed in patients receiving doses above 400 mg/day. The cause of syncope was not determined in most cases. However, several were associated with either changes in orthostatic blood pressure, atrial flutter/fibrillation (and associated tachycardia), or bradycardia. Cases of syncope have also been observed in open-label clinical epilepsy studies. These cases were associated with a history of risk factors for cardiac disease and the use of drugs that slow AV conduction.  



    5.5 Withdrawal of Antiepileptic Drugs (AEDs)



  As with all AEDs, VIMPAT should be withdrawn gradually (over a minimum of 1 week) to minimize the potential of increased seizure frequency in patients with seizure disorders.



    5.6 Multiorgan Hypersensitivity Reactions



  One case of symptomatic hepatitis and nephritis was observed among 4011 subjects exposed to VIMPAT during clinical development. The event occurred in a healthy volunteer, 10 days after stopping VIMPAT treatment. The subject was not taking any concomitant medication and potential known viral etiologies for hepatitis were ruled out. The subject fully recovered within a month, without specific treatment. The case is consistent with a delayed multiorgan hypersensitivity reaction. Additional potential cases included 2 with rash and elevated liver enzymes and 1 with myocarditis and hepatitis of uncertain etiology.



 Multiorgan hypersensitivity reactions (also known as D  rug R  eaction with E  osinophilia and S  ystemic S  ymptoms, or DRESS) have been reported with other antiepileptics and typically, although not exclusively, present with fever and rash associated with other organ system involvement, that may or may not include eosinophilia, hepatitis, nephritis, lymphadenopathy, and/or myocarditis. Because this disorder is variable in its expression, other organ system signs and symptoms not noted here may occur. If this reaction is suspected, VIMPAT should be discontinued and alternative treatment started.



    5.7 Phenylketonurics



  VIMPAT oral solution contains aspartame, a source of phenylalanine. A 200 mg dose of VIMPAT oral solution (equivalent to 20 mL) contains 0.32 mg of phenylalanine.
