   5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *  Risk of bleeding: XARELTO can cause serious and fatal bleeding. Promptly evaluate signs and symptoms of blood loss. (  5.2  ) 
 *  Pregnancy-related hemorrhage: Use XARELTO with caution in pregnant women due to the potential for obstetric hemorrhage and/or emergent delivery. Promptly evaluate signs and symptoms of blood loss. (  5.7  ) 
 *  Prosthetic heart valves: XARELTO use not recommended (  5.8  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Increased Risk of Thrombotic Events after Premature Discontinuation

  Premature discontinuation of any oral anticoagulant, including XARELTO, in the absence of adequate alternative anticoagulation increases the risk of thrombotic events. An increased rate of stroke was observed during the transition from XARELTO to warfarin in clinical trials in atrial fibrillation patients. If XARELTO is discontinued for a reason other than pathological bleeding or completion of a course of therapy, consider coverage with another anticoagulant [see  Dosage and Administration (2.3  ,  2.8)  and  Clinical Studies (14.1)  ]  .

    5.2 Risk of Bleeding

  XARELTO increases the risk of bleeding and can cause serious or fatal bleeding. In deciding whether to prescribe XARELTO to patients at increased risk of bleeding, the risk of thrombotic events should be weighed against the risk of bleeding.

 Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss and consider the need for blood replacement. Discontinue XARELTO in patients with active pathological hemorrhage. The terminal elimination half-life of rivaroxaban is 5 to 9 hours in healthy subjects aged 20 to 45 years.

 Concomitant use of other drugs that impair hemostasis increases the risk of bleeding. These include aspirin, P2Y12platelet inhibitors, other antithrombotic agents, fibrinolytic therapy, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) [see  Drug Interactions (7.4)  ]  , selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors.

 Concomitant use of drugs that are known combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors increases rivaroxaban exposure and may increase bleeding risk [see  Drug Interactions (7.2)  ]  .

    Reversal of Anticoagulant Effect  

 A specific antidote for rivaroxaban is not available. Because of high plasma protein binding, rivaroxaban is not expected to be dialyzable [see  Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)  ]  . Protamine sulfate and vitamin K are not expected to affect the anticoagulant activity of rivaroxaban. Partial reversal of prothrombin time prolongation has been seen after administration of prothrombin complex concentrates (PCCs) in healthy volunteers. The use of other procoagulant reversal agents like activated prothrombin complex concentrate (APCC) or recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) has not been evaluated.

    5.3 Spinal/Epidural Anesthesia or Puncture

  When neuraxial anesthesia (spinal/epidural anesthesia) or spinal puncture is employed, patients treated with anticoagulant agents for prevention of thromboembolic complications are at risk of developing an epidural or spinal hematoma which can result in long-term or permanent paralysis [see  Boxed Warning  ]  .

 To reduce the potential risk of bleeding associated with the concurrent use of XARELTO and epidural or spinal anesthesia/analgesia or spinal puncture, consider the pharmacokinetic profile of XARELTO [see  Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)  ]  . Placement or removal of an epidural catheter or lumbar puncture is best performed when the anticoagulant effect of XARELTO is low; however, the exact timing to reach a sufficiently low anticoagulant effect in each patient is not known.

 An indwelling epidural or intrathecal catheter should not be removed before at least 2 half-lives have elapsed (i.e., 18 hours in young patients aged 20 to 45 years and 26 hours in elderly patients aged 60 to 76 years), after the last administration of XARELTO [see  Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)  ]  . The next XARELTO dose should not be administered earlier than 6 hours after the removal of the catheter. If traumatic puncture occurs, delay the administration of XARELTO for 24 hours.

 Should the physician decide to administer anticoagulation in the context of epidural or spinal anesthesia/analgesia or lumbar puncture, monitor frequently to detect any signs or symptoms of neurological impairment, such as midline back pain, sensory and motor deficits (numbness, tingling, or weakness in lower limbs), bowel and/or bladder dysfunction. Instruct patients to immediately report if they experience any of the above signs or symptoms. If signs or symptoms of spinal hematoma are suspected, initiate urgent diagnosis and treatment including consideration for spinal cord decompression even though such treatment may not prevent or reverse neurological sequelae.

    5.4 Use in Patients with Renal Impairment

   Nonvalvular Atrial Fibrillation  

 Periodically assess renal function as clinically indicated (i.e., more frequently in situations in which renal function may decline) and adjust therapy accordingly [see  Dosage and Administration (2.4)  ]  . Consider dose adjustment or discontinuation of XARELTO in patients who develop acute renal failure while on XARELTO [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.6)  ].  

    Treatment of Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT), Pulmonary Embolism (PE), and Reduction in the Risk of Recurrence of DVT and of PE  

 Avoid the use of XARELTO in patients with CrCl <30 mL/min due to an expected increase in rivaroxaban exposure and pharmacodynamic effects in this patient population [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.6)  ]  .

    Prophylaxis of Deep Vein Thrombosis Following Hip or Knee Replacement Surgery  

 Avoid the use of XARELTO in patients with CrCl <30 mL/min due to an expected increase in rivaroxaban exposure and pharmacodynamic effects in this patient population. Observe closely and promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms of blood loss in patients with CrCl 30 to 50 mL/min. Patients who develop acute renal failure while on XARELTO should discontinue the treatment [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.6)  ].  

    5.5 Use in Patients with Hepatic Impairment

  No clinical data are available for patients with severe hepatic impairment.

 Avoid use of XARELTO in patients with moderate (Child-Pugh B) and severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment or with any hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy since drug exposure and bleeding risk may be increased [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.7)  ]  .

    5.6 Use with P-gp and Strong CYP3A4 Inhibitors or Inducers

  Avoid concomitant use of XARELTO with known combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors [see  Drug Interactions (7.2)  ]  .

 Avoid concomitant use of XARELTO with drugs that are known combined P-gp and strong CYP3A4 inducers [see  Drug Interactions (7.3)  ]  .

    5.7 Risk of Pregnancy-Related Hemorrhage

  In pregnant women, XARELTO should be used only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the mother and fetus. XARELTO dosing in pregnancy has not been studied. The anticoagulant effect of XARELTO cannot be monitored with standard laboratory testing nor readily reversed. Promptly evaluate any signs or symptoms suggesting blood loss (e.g., a drop in hemoglobin and/or hematocrit, hypotension, or fetal distress).

    5.8 Patients with Prosthetic Heart Valves

  The safety and efficacy of XARELTO have not been studied in patients with prosthetic heart valves. Therefore, use of XARELTO is not recommended in these patients.

    5.9 Acute PE in Hemodynamically Unstable Patients or Patients Who Require Thrombolysis or Pulmonary Embolectomy

  Initiation of XARELTO is not recommended acutely as an alternative to unfractionated heparin in patients with pulmonary embolism who present with hemodynamic instability or who may receive thrombolysis or pulmonary embolectomy.

