    5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS



   EXCERPT:    *  Avoid use of XELJANZ during an active serious infection, including localized infections. (  5.1  ) 
 *  Gastrointestinal Perforations - Use with caution in patients that may be at increased risk. (  5.3  ) 
 *  Laboratory Monitoring -Recommended due to potential changes in lymphocytes, neutrophils, hemoglobin, liver enzymes and lipids. (  5.4  ) 
 *  Immunizations - Live vaccines: Avoid use with XELJANZ. (  5.5  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Serious Infections



   Serious and sometimes fatal infections due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, viral, or other opportunistic pathogens have been reported in rheumatoid arthritis patients receiving XELJANZ. The most common serious infections reported with XELJANZ included pneumonia, cellulitis, herpes zoster, urinary tract infection, and diverticulitis [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Among opportunistic infections, tuberculosis and other mycobacterial infections, cryptococcosis, esophageal candidiasis, pneumocystosis, multidermatomal herpes zoster, cytomegalovirus, and BK virus were reported with XELJANZ. Some patients have presented with disseminated rather than localized disease, and were often taking concomitant immunomodulating agents such as methotrexate or corticosteroids.  



 Other serious infections that were not reported in clinical studies may also occur (e.g., histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, and listeriosis).



 Avoid use of XELJANZ in patients with an active, serious infection, including localized infections. The risks and benefits of treatment should be considered prior to initiating XELJANZ in patients:



 *  with chronic or recurrent infection 
 *  who have been exposed to tuberculosis 
 *  with a history of a serious or an opportunistic infection 
 *  who have resided or traveled in areas of endemic tuberculosis or endemic mycoses; or 
 *  with underlying conditions that may predispose them to infection. 
    Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with XELJANZ. XELJANZ should be interrupted if a patient develops a serious infection, an opportunistic infection, or sepsis. A patient who develops a new infection during treatment with XELJANZ should undergo prompt and complete diagnostic testing appropriate for an immunocompromised patient; appropriate antimicrobial therapy should be initiated, and the patient should be closely monitored.
 

    Tuberculosis  



 Patients should be evaluated and tested for latent or active infection prior to administration of XELJANZ.



 Anti-tuberculosis therapy should also be considered prior to administration of XELJANZ in patients with a past history of latent or active tuberculosis in whom an adequate course of treatment cannot be confirmed, and for patients with a negative test for latent tuberculosis but who have risk factors for tuberculosis infection. Consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis is recommended to aid in the decision about whether initiating anti-tuberculosis therapy is appropriate for an individual patient.



 Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms of tuberculosis, including patients who tested negative for latent tuberculosis infection prior to initiating therapy.



 Patients with latent tuberculosis should be treated with standard antimycobacterial therapy before administering XELJANZ.



    Viral Reactivation  



  Viral reactivation, including cases of herpes virus reactivation (e.g., herpes zoster), were observed in clinical studies with XELJANZ. The impact of XELJANZ on chronic viral hepatitis reactivation is unknown. Patients who screened positive for hepatitis B or C were excluded from clinical trials. Screening for viral hepatitis should be performed in accordance with clinical guidelines before starting therapy with XELJANZ. The risk of herpes zoster is increased in patients treated with XELJANZ and appears to be higher in patients treated with XELJANZ in Japan.  



    5.2 Malignancy and Lymphoproliferative Disorders



  Consider the risks and benefits of XELJANZ treatment prior to initiating therapy in patients with a known malignancy other than a successfully treated non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) or when considering continuing XELJANZ in patients who develop a malignancy. Malignancies were observed in clinical studies of XELJANZ [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ].  



 In the seven controlled rheumatoid arthritis clinical studies, 11 solid cancers and one lymphoma were diagnosed in 3328 patients receiving XELJANZ with or without DMARD, compared to 0 solid cancers and 0 lymphomas in 809 patients in the placebo with or without DMARD group during the first 12 months of exposure. Lymphomas and solid cancers have also been observed in the long-term extension studies in rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with XELJANZ.



 In Phase 2B, controlled dose-ranging trials in de-novo  renal transplant patients, all of whom received induction therapy with basiliximab, high-dose corticosteroids, and mycophenolic acid products, Epstein Barr Virus-associated post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder was observed in 5 out of 218 patients treated with XELJANZ (2.3%) compared to 0 out of 111 patients treated with cyclosporine.



    Non-Melanoma Skin Cancer  



 Non-melanoma skin cancers (NMSCs) have been reported in patients treated with XELJANZ. Periodic skin examination is recommended for patients who are at increased risk for skin cancer.



    5.3 Gastrointestinal Perforations



  Events of gastrointestinal perforation have been reported in clinical studies with XELJANZ in rheumatoid arthritis patients, although the role of JAK inhibition in these events is not known.



 XELJANZ should be used with caution in patients who may be at increased risk for gastrointestinal perforation (e.g., patients with a history of diverticulitis). Patients presenting with new onset abdominal symptoms should be evaluated promptly for early identification of gastrointestinal perforation [see  Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ].  



    5.4 Laboratory Abnormalities



   Lymphocyte Abnormalities  



 Treatment with XELJANZ was associated with initial lymphocytosis at one month of exposure followed by a gradual decrease in mean absolute lymphocyte counts below the baseline of approximately 10% during 12 months of therapy. Lymphocyte counts less than 500 cells/mm  3  were associated with an increased incidence of treated and serious infections.



 Avoid initiation of XELJANZ treatment in patients with a low lymphocyte count (i.e., less than 500 cells/mm  3  ). In patients who develop a confirmed absolute lymphocyte count less than 500 cells/mm  3  treatment with XELJANZ is not recommended.



 Monitor lymphocyte counts at baseline and every 3 months thereafter. For recommended modifications based on lymphocyte counts see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)    .



    Neutropenia  



 Treatment with XELJANZ was associated with an increased incidence of neutropenia (less than 2000 cells/mm  3  ) compared to placebo.



 Avoid initiation of XELJANZ treatment in patients with a low neutrophil count (i.e., ANC less than 1000 cells/mm  3  ). For patients who develop a persistent ANC of 500-1000 cells/mm  3  , interrupt XELJANZ dosing until ANC is greater than or equal to 1000 cells/mm  3  . In patients who develop an ANC less than 500 cells/mm  3  , treatment with XELJANZ is not recommended.



 Monitor neutrophil counts at baseline and after 4-8 weeks of treatment and every 3 months thereafter. For recommended modifications based on ANC results see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)    .



    Anemia  



 Avoid initiation of XELJANZ treatment in patients with a low hemoglobin level (i.e. less than 9 g/dL). Treatment with XELJANZ should be interrupted in patients who develop hemoglobin levels less than 8 g/dL or whose hemoglobin level drops greater than 2 g/dL on treatment.



 Monitor hemoglobin at baseline and after 4-8 weeks of treatment and every 3 months thereafter. For recommended modifications based on hemoglobin results see  Dosage and Administration (2.2)    .



    Liver Enzyme Elevations  



 Treatment with XELJANZ was associated with an increased incidence of liver enzyme elevation compared to placebo. Most of these abnormalities occurred in studies with background DMARD (primarily methotrexate) therapy.



 Routine monitoring of liver tests and prompt investigation of the causes of liver enzyme elevations is recommended to identify potential cases of drug-induced liver injury. If drug-induced liver injury is suspected, the administration of XELJANZ should be interrupted until this diagnosis has been excluded.



    Lipid Elevations  



 Treatment with XELJANZ was associated with increases in lipid parameters including total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Maximum effects were generally observed within 6 weeks. The effect of these lipid parameter elevations on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined.



 Assessment of lipid parameters should be performed approximately 4-8 weeks following initiation of XELJANZ therapy.



 Manage patients according to clinical guidelines [e.g., National Cholesterol Educational Program (NCEP)] for the management of hyperlipidemia.



    5.5 Vaccinations



  No data are available on the response to vaccination or on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines to patients receiving XELJANZ. Avoid use of live vaccines concurrently with XELJANZ.



 Update immunizations in agreement with current immunization guidelines prior to initiating XELJANZ therapy.
