

    BOXED WARNING: WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS AND MALIGNANCY

    WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS AND MALIGNANCY  

  EXCERPT:   WARNING: SERIOUS INFECTIONS AND MALIGNANCY



   See full prescribing information for complete boxed warning.  



 *  Serious infections leading to hospitalization or death, including tuberculosis and bacterial, invasive fungal, viral, and other opportunistic infections, have occurred in patients receiving XELJANZ. (5.1) 
 *  If a serious infection develops, interrupt XELJANZ until the infection is controlled. (5.1) 
 *  Prior to starting XELJANZ, perform a test for latent tuberculosis; if it is positive, start treatment for tuberculosis prior to starting XELJANZ. (5.1) 
 *  Monitor all patients for active tuberculosis during treatment, even if the initial latent tuberculosis test is negative. (5.1) 
 *  Lymphoma and other malignancies have been observed in patients treated with XELJANZ. Epstein Barr Virus-associated post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder has been observed at an increased rate in renal transplant patients treated with XELJANZ and concomitant immunosuppressive medications. (5.2) 
    
 

    SERIOUS INFECTIONS  



   Patients treated with XELJANZ are at increased risk for developing serious infections that may lead to hospitalization or death   [see   Warnings and Precautions (5.1)   and   Adverse Reactions (6.1)  ]  . Most patients who developed these infections were taking concomitant immunosuppressants such as methotrexate or corticosteroids.  



   If a serious infection develops, interrupt XELJANZ until the infection is controlled.   



   Reported infections include:   



 *  Active tuberculosis, which may present with pulmonary or extrapulmonary disease. Patients should be tested for latent tuberculosis before XELJANZ use and during therapy. Treatment for latent infection should be initiated prior to XELJANZ use. 
 *  Invasive fungal infections, including cryptococcosis and pneumocystosis. Patients with invasive fungal infections may present with disseminated, rather than localized, disease. 
 *  Bacterial, viral, and other infections due to opportunistic pathogens. 
      The risks and benefits of treatment with XELJANZ should be carefully considered prior to initiating therapy in patients with chronic or recurrent infection.   
 

   Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during and after treatment with XELJANZ, including the possible development of tuberculosis in patients who tested negative for latent tuberculosis infection prior to initiating therapy   [see   Warnings and Precautions (5.1)  ]  .  



     MALIGNANCIES  



   Lymphoma and other malignancies have been observed in patients treated with XELJANZ. Epstein Barr Virus-associated post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder has been observed at an increased rate in renal transplant patients treated with XELJANZ and concomitant immunosuppressive medications   [see   Warnings and Precautions (5.2)  ]  .  
