   5 WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS

   EXCERPT:    *   Coagulopathy : May result in bleeding, death. Monitor anticoagulant response (e.g., INR) and adjust anticoagulant dose accordingly. (  5.1  ) 
 *   Diarrhea : May be severe. Interrupt XELODA treatment immediately until diarrhea resolves or decreases to grade 1. Recommend standard antidiarrheal treatments. (  5.2  ) 
 *   Cardiotoxicity : Common in patients with a prior history of coronary artery disease. (  5.3  ) 
 *   Increased Risk of Severe or Fatal Adverse Reactions in Patients with Low or Absent Dihydropyrimidine Dehydrogenase (DPD) Activity: Withhold or permanently discontinue XELODA in patients with evidence of acute early-onset or unusually severe toxicity, which may indicate near complete or total absence of DPD activity. No XELODA dose has been proven safe in patients with absent DPD activity. (  5.4  ) 
 *   Dehydration and Renal Failure : Interrupt XELODA treatment until dehydration is corrected. Potential risk of acute renal failure secondary to dehydration. Monitor and correct dehydration. (  5.5  ). 
 *   Embryo-Fetal Toxicity : Can cause fetal harm. Advise females of reproductive potential of the potential risk to a fetus and to use effective contraception. (  5.6  ,  8.1  ,  8.3  ) 
 *   Mucocutaneous and Dermatologic Toxicity : Severe mucocutaneous reactions, Steven-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) and Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (TEN), have been reported. XELODA should be permanently discontinued in patients who experience a severe mucocutaneous reaction during treatment. XELODA may induce hand-and-foot syndrome. Persistent or severe hand-and-foot syndrome can lead to loss of fingerprints which could impact patient identification. Interrupt XELODA treatment until the hand-and-foot syndrome event resolves or decreases in intensity. (  5.7  ) 
 *   Hyperbilirubinemia : Interrupt XELODA treatment immediately until the hyperbilirubinemia resolves or decreases in intensity. (  5.8  ) 
 *   Hematologic : Do not treat patients with neutrophil counts <1.5 * 10  9  /L or thrombocyte counts <100 * 10  9  /L. If grade 3-4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia occurs, stop therapy until condition resolves. (  5.9  ) 
    
 

   5.1 Coagulopathy

  Patients receiving concomitant capecitabine and oral coumarin-derivative anticoagulant therapy should have their anticoagulant response (INR or prothrombin time) monitored closely with great frequency and the anticoagulant dose should be adjusted accordingly [see  Boxed Warning  and  Drug Interactions (7.1)  ].  

    5.2 Diarrhea

  XELODA can induce diarrhea, sometimes severe. Patients with severe diarrhea should be carefully monitored and given fluid and electrolyte replacement if they become dehydrated. In 875 patients with either metastatic breast or colorectal cancer who received XELODA monotherapy, the median time to first occurrence of grade 2 to 4 diarrhea was 34 days (range from 1 to 369 days). The median duration of grade 3 to 4 diarrhea was 5 days. National Cancer Institute of Canada (NCIC) grade 2 diarrhea is defined as an increase of 4 to 6 stools/day or nocturnal stools, grade 3 diarrhea as an increase of 7 to 9 stools/day or incontinence and malabsorption, and grade 4 diarrhea as an increase of >=10 stools/day or grossly bloody diarrhea or the need for parenteral support. If grade 2, 3 or 4 diarrhea occurs, administration of XELODA should be immediately interrupted until the diarrhea resolves or decreases in intensity to grade 1 [see  Dosage and Administration (2.3)  ]  . Standard antidiarrheal treatments (e.g., loperamide) are recommended.

 Necrotizing enterocolitis (typhlitis) has been reported.

    5.3 Cardiotoxicity

  The cardiotoxicity observed with XELODA includes myocardial infarction/ischemia, angina, dysrhythmias, cardiac arrest, cardiac failure, sudden death, electrocardiographic changes, and cardiomyopathy. These adverse reactions may be more common in patients with a prior history of coronary artery disease.

    5.4 Dihydropyrimidine Dehydrogenase Deficiency

  Based on postmarketing reports, patients with certain homozygous or certain compound heterozygous mutations in the DPD gene that result in complete or near complete absence of DPD activity are at increased risk for acute early-onset of toxicity and severe, life-threatening, or fatal adverse reactions caused by XELODA (e.g., mucositis, diarrhea, neutropenia, and neurotoxicity). Patients with partial DPD activity may also have increased risk of severe, life-threatening, or fatal adverse reactions caused by XELODA.

 Withhold or permanently discontinue XELODA based on clinical assessment of the onset, duration and severity of the observed toxicities in patients with evidence of acute early-onset or unusually severe toxicity, which may indicate near complete or total absence of DPD activity. No XELODA dose has been proven safe for patients with complete absence of DPD activity. There is insufficient data to recommend a specific dose in patients with partial DPD activity as measured by any specific test.

    5.5 Dehydration and Renal Failure

  Dehydration has been observed and may cause acute renal failure which can be fatal. Patients with pre-existing compromised renal function or who are receiving concomitant XELODA with known nephrotoxic agents are at higher risk. Patients with anorexia, asthenia, nausea, vomiting or diarrhea may rapidly become dehydrated. Monitor patients when XELODA is administered to prevent and correct dehydration at the onset. If grade 2 (or higher) dehydration occurs, XELODA treatment should be immediately interrupted and the dehydration corrected. Treatment should not be restarted until the patient is rehydrated and any precipitating causes have been corrected or controlled. Dose modifications should be applied for the precipitating adverse event as necessary [ see  Dosage and Administration (2.3)    ].

 Patients with moderate renal impairment at baseline require dose reduction [see  Dosage and Administration (2.4)  ]  . Patients with mild and moderate renal impairment at baseline should be carefully monitored for adverse reactions. Prompt interruption of therapy with subsequent dose adjustments is recommended if a patient develops a grade 2 to 4 adverse event as outlined in   Table 2     [see  Dosage and Administration (2.3)  ,  Use in Specific Populations (8.7)  , and  Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)  ]  .

    5.6 Embryo-Fetal Toxicity

   Based on findings from animal reproduction studies and its mechanism of action, XELODA may cause fetal harm when given to a pregnant woman [see  Clinical Pharmacology (12.1)  ]  . Limited available data are not sufficient to inform use of XELODA in pregnant women. In animal reproduction studies, administration of capecitabine to pregnant animals during the period of organogenesis caused embryolethality and teratogenicity in mice and embryolethality in monkeys at 0.2 and 0.6 times the exposure (AUC) in patients receiving the recommended dose respectively [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.1)  ]  . Apprise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus. Advise females of reproductive potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for 6 months following the last dose of XELODA [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.3)  ]  .  

    5.7 Mucocutaneous and Dermatologic Toxicity

   Severe mucocutaneous reactions, some with fatal outcome, such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome and Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (TEN) can occur in patients treated with XELODA [ see  Adverse Reactions (6.4)    ]. XELODA should be permanently discontinued in patients who experience a severe mucocutaneous reaction possibly attributable to XELODA treatment.  

 Hand-and-foot syndrome (palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia or chemotherapy-induced acral erythema) is a cutaneous toxicity. Median time to onset was 79 days (range from 11 to 360 days) with a severity range of grades 1 to 3 for patients receiving XELODA monotherapy in the metastatic setting. Grade 1 is characterized by any of the following: numbness, dysesthesia/paresthesia, tingling, painless swelling or erythema of the hands and/or feet and/or discomfort which does not disrupt normal activities. Grade 2 hand-and-foot syndrome is defined as painful erythema and swelling of the hands and/or feet and/or discomfort affecting the patient's activities of daily living. Grade 3 hand-and-foot syndrome is defined as moist desquamation, ulceration, blistering or severe pain of the hands and/or feet and/or severe discomfort that causes the patient to be unable to work or perform activities of daily living. Persistent or severe hand-and-foot syndrome (grade 2 and above) can eventually lead to loss of fingerprints which could impact patient identification. If grade 2 or 3 hand-and-foot syndrome occurs, administration of XELODA should be interrupted until the event resolves or decreases in intensity to grade 1. Following grade 3 hand-and-foot syndrome, subsequent doses of XELODA should be decreased [see  Dosage and Administration (2.3)  ]  .

    5.8 Hyperbilirubinemia

  In 875 patients with either metastatic breast or colorectal cancer who received at least one dose of XELODA 1250 mg/m  2  twice daily as monotherapy for 2 weeks followed by a 1-week rest period, grade 3 (1.5-3 * ULN) hyperbilirubinemia occurred in 15.2% (n=133) of patients and grade 4 (>3 * ULN) hyperbilirubinemia occurred in 3.9% (n=34) of patients. Of 566 patients who had hepatic metastases at baseline and 309 patients without hepatic metastases at baseline, grade 3 or 4 hyperbilirubinemia occurred in 22.8% and 12.3%, respectively. Of the 167 patients with grade 3 or 4 hyperbilirubinemia, 18.6% (n=31) also had postbaseline elevations (grades 1 to 4, without elevations at baseline) in alkaline phosphatase and 27.5% (n=46) had postbaseline elevations in transaminases at any time (not necessarily concurrent). The majority of these patients, 64.5% (n=20) and 71.7% (n=33), had liver metastases at baseline. In addition, 57.5% (n=96) and 35.3% (n=59) of the 167 patients had elevations (grades 1 to 4) at both prebaseline and postbaseline in alkaline phosphatase or transaminases, respectively. Only 7.8% (n=13) and 3.0% (n=5) had grade 3 or 4 elevations in alkaline phosphatase or transaminases.

 In the 596 patients treated with XELODA as first-line therapy for metastatic colorectal cancer, the incidence of grade 3 or 4 hyperbilirubinemia was similar to the overall clinical trial safety database of XELODA monotherapy. The median time to onset for grade 3 or 4 hyperbilirubinemia in the colorectal cancer population was 64 days and median total bilirubin increased from 8 um/L at baseline to 13 um/L during treatment with XELODA. Of the 136 colorectal cancer patients with grade 3 or 4 hyperbilirubinemia, 49 patients had grade 3 or 4 hyperbilirubinemia as their last measured value, of which 46 had liver metastases at baseline.

 In 251 patients with metastatic breast cancer who received a combination of XELODA and docetaxel, grade 3 (1.5 to 3 * ULN) hyperbilirubinemia occurred in 7% (n=17) and grade 4 (>3 * ULN) hyperbilirubinemia occurred in 2% (n=5).

 If drug-related grade 3 to 4 elevations in bilirubin occur, administration of XELODA should be immediately interrupted until the hyperbilirubinemia decreases to <=3.0 * ULN [  see recommended dose modifications under   Dosage and Administration (2.3)  ]  .

    5.9 Hematologic

  In 875 patients with either metastatic breast or colorectal cancer who received a dose of 1250 mg/m  2  administered twice daily as monotherapy for 2 weeks followed by a 1-week rest period, 3.2%, 1.7%, and 2.4% of patients had grade 3 or 4 neutropenia, thrombocytopenia or decreases in hemoglobin, respectively. In 251 patients with metastatic breast cancer who received a dose of XELODA in combination with docetaxel, 68% had grade 3 or 4 neutropenia, 2.8% had grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia, and 9.6% had grade 3 or 4 anemia.

 Patients with baseline neutrophil counts of <1.5 * 10  9  /L and/or thrombocyte counts of <100 * 10  9  /L should not be treated with XELODA. If unscheduled laboratory assessments during a treatment cycle show grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity, treatment with XELODA should be interrupted.

    5.10 Geriatric Patients

  Patients >=80 years old may experience a greater incidence of grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions. In 875 patients with either metastatic breast or colorectal cancer who received XELODA monotherapy, 62% of the 21 patients >=80 years of age treated with XELODA experienced a treatment-related grade 3 or 4 adverse event: diarrhea in 6 (28.6%), nausea in 3 (14.3%), hand-and-foot syndrome in 3 (14.3%), and vomiting in 2 (9.5%) patients. Among the 10 patients 70 years of age and greater (no patients were >80 years of age) treated with XELODA in combination with docetaxel, 30% (3 out of 10) of patients experienced grade 3 or 4 diarrhea and stomatitis, and 40% (4 out of 10) experienced grade 3 hand-and-foot syndrome.

 Among the 67 patients >=60 years of age receiving XELODA in combination with docetaxel, the incidence of grade 3 or 4 treatment-related adverse reactions, treatment-related serious adverse reactions, withdrawals due to adverse reactions, treatment discontinuations due to adverse reactions and treatment discontinuations within the first two treatment cycles was higher than in the <60 years of age patient group.

 In 995 patients receiving XELODA as adjuvant therapy for Dukes' C colon cancer after resection of the primary tumor, 41% of the 398 patients >=65 years of age treated with XELODA experienced a treatment-related grade 3 or 4 adverse event: hand-and-foot syndrome in 75 (18.8%), diarrhea in 52 (13.1%), stomatitis in 12 (3.0%), neutropenia/granulocytopenia in 11 (2.8%), vomiting in 6 (1.5%), and nausea in 5 (1.3%) patients. In patients >=65 years of age (all randomized population; capecitabine 188 patients, 5-FU/LV 208 patients) treated for Dukes' C colon cancer after resection of the primary tumor, the hazard ratios for disease-free survival and overall survival for XELODA compared to 5-FU/LV were 1.01 (95% C.I. 0.80 - 1.27) and 1.04 (95% C.I. 0.79 - 1.37), respectively.

    5.11 Hepatic Insufficiency

  Patients with mild to moderate hepatic dysfunction due to liver metastases should be carefully monitored when XELODA is administered. The effect of severe hepatic dysfunction on the disposition of XELODA is not known [see  Use in Specific Populations (8.6)  and  Clinical Pharmacology (12.3)  ]  .

    5.12 Combination With Other Drugs

  Use of XELODA in combination with irinotecan has not been adequately studied.

