Ate a decent meal and took one pill at 4:30 pm, the 75 size, on 9/10.
Within 15-20 minutes my stomach felt empty and hollow.
Within 1 hour I had stomach pain that felt like deep pain- like gas pains.
I kept eating a small amount of food to make the stomach emptiness and pain ease up.
Went to bed and felt hot flashes and sweated (I don't sweat, am cold natured) and had pain in the pit of my stomach all night.
I felt a deep ache from my waist down to the heels of my feet (Like "back labor" pains during childbirth, for those of you who have experienced such a thing, or a prolonged miscarriage.)
My stomach stayed upset and painful through 9/14.
On 9/15 my stomach quit hurting, but the deep pain in my pelvis and down my legs (it felt like my leg bones were filled with cold metal and ached deeply and hurt!)continued through 9/16.
I was just tapering off of my menstrual period when I took the one pill, but noticed an increase in cramping and breasts getting more and more (and more!.
The side effects were harder to deal with than the condition I was taking it for- and it made me feel 200% worse!
Not worth it!
I will carefully take ibuprofen or Aleve (naproxen sodium)- limit using it as much as I am able- and deal with ulcers if I ever end up with one!
Taking this horrid stuff to prevent one just is not worth it!
Pharmacist finds it hard to believe one pill did all this- but looked at other meds, and no other explaination.
I took last Lyrica, after a two week trial, on 9/15.
FYI:(I reacted about the same way (excessive mestrual bleeding) to oral, low-dose Prednisone, as well.)
I seem to be more hormonally/chemically sensitive than a lot of people.
It may not be important, but it MAY be> I cannot take, whether because of over-reaction, adverse reaction, allergy: Birth control pills or shots, Codeine, any opiate-based, hydrocodone, prednisone, corti-cortisones, pseudoephedrine, morphine, demerol, percocette, darvon, cyclobenzoprene, (sulfur drugs listed as possibly lethal due to parent's reaction.)
Allergic to citrus fruits & bioflavenoids, lanolin/wool, and topical Benedryl.
