SEVERE FATIGUE IN MY BODY AND TIREDNESS AND MUSCLE PAINS IN MY HIPS THAT CONTINUE TO THIS DAY AFTER BEING OFF THE DRUG FOR ALMOST A YEAR.
DO NOT TAKE THIS DRUG!!!!!!!.
I was put on this drug by my doctor for my somewhat high cholesterol.
The next day, after starting this drug, I suddenly felt like I had aged to eighty years old overnight but did not connect it to starting Lipitor.
Up until the start of this drug I felt that I was as young as I was in my twenties and wondered if this is how you might start feeling the affects of age, by waking up one morning and feeling all that age caught up with you and now you were older than your years.
I took the drug for two terrible months and then had a blood test and my cholesterol had dropped.
My doctor mailed me the results of my blood test but did not send me a new prescription like he had the last time so I did not know that he wanted me to get it refilled.
So I went off of Lipitor and within two months I was feeling normal again and even took a job with the post office where I walked five miles a day with no problem.
I did not associate my getting better with my coming off Lipitor, unfortunately.
Then I had an appointment with my doctor and he said I should have refilled that prescription by calling his office.
So I did and the next day, after taking only one pill, I was eighty years old again.
This time I did associate it with the start of Lipitor and then read the warnings the drug store gives you with meds and found that my symptoms were the same as what they warned against.
I am not a hypochondriac and I never read those warnings so this was not a head thing.
I immediately went off the drug but a year later I am still have the same eighty years old feeling and do not know that I will ever be normal again.
I do not understand how just one pill can do that and this time I am not recovering like I did the first time.
This has ruined my life and I would never have taken Lipitor if I knew what I know now and I am so sorry that I ever heard of this drug.
This is so severe that I think taking it for even a short time can cause permanent damage.
My doctor, when I told him of all this, wanted to change statins because he was still worried about my cholesterol.
I told him no more statins and he then prescribed Zetia, which he said was was less effective but was not a statin, which I am still afraid to take unless I improve from the affects of the Lipitor.
He told me he was on Lipitor himself and that he had no problems but then said, well he did have neck pains that could have been a side affect, but that he had been on the drug two years before this developed.
I told him of the information on this site that describes some people having that delayed reaction and I advised him to take himself off of this drug for a couple of weeks to see if the neck pains cleared up!
I advise, DO NOT TAKE THIS DRUG!!!!!.
