I am the advocate for my father who took this drug for 8 months before he passed from an aggressive form of brain cancer in 2005.
The patient data is reported for him by me.
Briefly, my research during my advocacy efforts during his illness indicated that this drug may have contributed to the onset of his particular form of brain cancer (glial cell related cancer).
That cancer was diagnosed 6 months after his initial Rx for Lipitor -- he died 2 months after his initial cancer diagnosis.
There were no warning signs, deterioration was very fast and debilitating -- he was a model totally healthy individual by conventional medical standards.
My father was vibrant and could work any teen into the ground for a 75 year old, had great cholesterol numbers, but he was a cardiac patient.
He and the cardiologist agreed to go to Lipitor to see if they could drive LDL below 100 (his lipid profile was very, very good by usual medical standards).
I will say that there was no way any doctor could have known this would happen (my research showed that Lipitor could contribute to this cancer with prior risk factors for it which would have to have been environmental exposure and from what I know of my father's work history experience), but it would help if conventional medicine would listen to patients and their families about experiences that we all are reporting in places such as this.
My father could not speak for himself as his form of brain cancer was so aggressive that he went from a totally normal guy walking with a cane from initial neurological damage at inital dx for brain cancer to bedridden, unable to speak, feed himself, do anything for himself in 10 days.
Don't know if this will really help anybody -- but just please be cautious with Rx medicines and advocate for yourself; you may not know everthing, but you do know best about what you are experiencing with these Rxs.
keep doing your research, tell your doctor anything you find relevent about your life as it relates to Rxs you are given, and advocate hard for your quality of life.
