Was on Lipitor 10 mg per day for about 5 years and experienced chronic and acute back pain which gradually improved but seemed strange to me because I hadn't really done anything to strain my back muscles.
New doc gave me a different statin but I had leg cramps so he put me on Baycol.
Baycol was removed from market so next doc put me back on Lipitor.
My cholesterol level increased to slightly over 200 so my doc increased dosage to 40 mg a day.
Hand and leg cramps returned.
Hands diagnosed as carpal tunnel syndrome and I wore a hand brace to sleep several nights a week which controlled the symptoms.
Recently developed inflammation of my foot muscles and joints and (apparently) plantar fasciitis of my left foot.
Doc prescribed 800 mg Motrin qid but the foot problems became worse.
General weakness in my feet, calves, and hands and tingling and burning in the soles of my feet.
Depression, for which I've been taking an SSRI for about two years and may not be related to the Lipitor.
I had high cholesterol (over 350) and was prescribed Lipitor in 1996 after other methods failed to have much effect.
I have taken two stress tests over the past ten years and was told I had a healthy cardiovascular system with no trace of heart disease.
I am 6' tall, weighed 177 lbs., and considered myself healthy until recently.
I need to be able to pass a physical readiness test, including a 1.5 mile run, every 6 months because I'm in the military.
I took myself off Lipitor because I can not take the physical readiness test.
In fact I need a cane in the morning to get out of bed.
I am not overweight.
I was told to stretch and exercise more but that has not helped my symptoms, which have continued to worsen.
Until recently I walked to work and shopping, 4 or 5 miles most weekdays, and more on the weekends.
I also ran 2 miles, 3 times a week.
Now I have difficulty walking and problems with my balance and I've gained 10 pounds because I've become sedentary.
Two days after taking myself off Lipitor my feet have improved a little and I'm looking forward to resuming a more active lifestyle.
I think my symptoms are a result of Lipitor.
